IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JACQUELINE Q. RIPPLE, ATC * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: A00676 * Case Number: 2223-0022
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On December 14, 2022, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged Jacqueline Q. Ripple, ATC (the “Respondent”), License
Number A00676, under the Maryland Athletic Trainers Act (the Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. §§ 14-5D-01~14-5D-20 (2021 Repl. Vol.). Panel B charged the Respondent under the
following provisions of the Act:

Health Oce. § 14-5D-14. Denial of license, reprimand, probation, or suspension or
revocation of license.

(a) Grounds. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of

the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of athletic
training;

(4) _Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;

(6) — Habitually is intoxicated;

(8) Provides professional services while:

(i) While under the influence of alcohol[.]
On April 26, 2023, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution
(“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this DCCR, the
Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions
of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B makes the following factual findings:

I. BACKGROUND

1, At all times relevant to the charges, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
athletic training in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally issued an athletic trainer
license in Maryland on September 12, 2014, under License Number A00676. The license expired
on or about September 20, 2017.

2. On June 6, 2022, the Respondent filed an Application for Reinstatement of Athletic
Trainers. The Respondent’s license was reinstated on July 5, 2022.

3. The Respondent’s license expires on September 30, 2023, subject to renewal.

4. The Respondent was also licensed in Tennessee on or about September 25, 2015.
That license expired on or about January 31, 2018.

5. The Respondent was also licensed in North Carolina on or about July 27, 2017.
That license expired on or about January 31, 2021.

6. There is no known history of disciplinary action on the Respondent’s Tennessee or
North Carolina licenses.

7. The Respondent was initially hired as an intern with a local college athletic
association (the “College”) located in Maryland from June 2014 to May of 2015. She was later

hired by the College as an Assistant Athletic Trainer on or about June 1, 2022.
 

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course begins;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(c) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal; and

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;
and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of the
suspension and the minimum period of suspension imposed by this Consent Order has passed and
MPRP makes a recommendation on whether it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice
of athletic training, the Respondent may petition the Board for the termination of the suspension.
A Board disciplinary panel will make the final determination on whether the suspension is
terminated. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss
her petition. Ifa Board disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to
the practice of athletic training, the disciplinary panel will terminate the suspension and issue an
order with the terms and conditions that the disciplinary panel deems appropriate for the
Respondent’s return to practice, which may include probation and conditions of probation. If,
after considering MPRP’s recommendation, the disciplinary panel determines it is not safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of athletic training, the suspension shall remain in effect under
the terms and conditions the disciplinary panel finds reasonable and appropriate under the

circumstances; and it is further

ll
ORDERED that this Consent Order goes into effect upon the signature of the Executive
Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee signs this Consent
Order on behalf of Board Disciplinary Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity for a
hearing. If a disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if a disciplinary panel
determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the
Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the
Respondent's license to practice as an athletic trainer in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the
Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

. e
0s Joy[20e3 Signature On File
“ Map Siae Boarryssa (/

12

 
CONSENT

I, Jacqueline Q. Ripple, ATC, acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments or
modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5D-15 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq. concerning the
charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other substantive
and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and substantive
protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to
initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to appeal this
Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and
meaning of its terms.

Signature On File

bs 2693 ey
Date Jecqueffae Q. Ripple! ATC
d

Respondent
NOTARY

STATEOFR  Vév — Jevse

 

cityicounty or Passes c
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2 day of _ Ma 4 , 2023,

before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, did personally appear
Jacqueline Q. Ripple and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order
was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and seal.

 

 

2a NGS Jersey

Notary Public-of New Jerse)

Commission Expires 01/14/2026
1D#2392729

14
 

8. On or about September 16, 2022, the Board received an Athletic Trainer Evaluation
and Treatment Protocol Agreement Termination Notice (the “Termination Notice”) stating that the
Active Supervisee-Evaluation and Treatment Protocol Agreement between the Respondent and
her supervising physician was terminated due to:

Allegations by multiple witnesses of both consumption of alcohol and of being

under the influence of alcohol while in a duty status involving the evaluation and

treatment of student athletes, and a failure to report a driving under the influence

charge in July of 2022 to her immediate supervisor and her supervising physician.

I. INVESTIGATION

9. The Board initiated an investigation based on the Termination Notice. The Board
notified the Respondent of its investigation by letter dated September 22, 2022, and directed her
to provide a written response.

10. On October 10, 2022, the Respondent provided a written response stating:

I was charged with a DUI in July. I did not report it immediately because I was

trying to figure out the severity of it with my lawyer and have not yet been to court

for it. I was told by my boss that I had been smelling like alcohol and empty alcohol

was found in my locker. I admitted that I had left it there and it was not consumed

on work time.

11. On September 19, 2022, the Respondent underwent an evaluation and was
diagnosed with a health condition.!

12. Asa part of the investigation, Board staff interviewed the Respondent and several

of her colleagues.

Supervisor?

‘For confidentiality purposes, the complete results and recommendations of the evaluation are not disclosed
herein.

2 To maintain privacy and confidentiality, the names of all witnesses, facilities, employees, and patients
will not be used in this document.
13. On October 6, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the Director
of Sports Medicine at the College (“Supervisor”) who directly supervised the Respondent. He was
initially alerted to the Respondent’s concerning behaviors on or about August 12, 2022.

14. Several students and employees advised the Supervisor that the Respondent
frequently smelled of alcohol and was heard opening cans while in the stalls in the locker room.

15. On September 9, 2022, the Supervisor was again alerted to some concerning
behavior by the Respondent during a junior varsity game where she kept going up to the locker
room when there was no reason to do so. Another employee had also sent the Supervisor a photo
of the contents of the Respondent’s locker which included a brown paper Wawa bag full of empty
alcoholic beverage containers.

16. On September 12, 2022, the Supervisor inspected the women’s locker room and
found another separate plastic Wawa bag full of empty alcoholic beverage containers in the trash
along with a receipt with the Respondent’s name on it. They were the same empty containers in
the photo of the Respondent’s locker sent to the Supervisor on September 9, 2022. The Supervisor
reported this information to human resources the following day.

17. On September 13, 2022, the Supervisor arrived at the College early that morning to
find the Respondent walking out with the brown paper Wawa bag of empty containers which had
previously been found in her locker. The Supervisor also noticed that the Respondent’s car was
inappropriately parked in the middle of two adjoining parking spaces. The Supervisor asked the
Respondent if she was aware that she had parked in two spaces, and the Respondent advised that
she was not aware. She proceeded to discard the bag of empty cans in the trash and then moved

her car to an appropriate parking space.
 

 

:

18. The Supervisor later approached the Respondent regarding the multiple allegations
of her concerning behavior and the empty cans found in her locker.

19. The Respondent admitted to drinking more due to anxiety at home. She also
admitted to drinking the alcoholic beverages that were found in the brown paper bag in her locker.
The Respondent denied drinking alcohol while at work.

20. The Respondent also disclosed that on July 11, 2022, she was arrested for driving
under the influence/while intoxicated by alcohol and related offenses. The case has not yet been
adjudicated.

21. The Respondent’s behavior was also noted to be a concern when it began to affect
her performance.

22. One employee reported that the Respondent had initially dressed the employee’s
burn wound, however, when asked to redress the wound a few days later, the Respondent attempted
to dress the wound inappropriately and had to be directed to do so correctly.

23. The Supervisor recalls asking the Respondent to apply a very basic sling with a
velcro strap to a student’s sprain, and she was unable to do so.

24. — Based on the students and employees who reported an odor of alcohol on the
Respondent, the empty cans of alcoholic beverages found in the Respondent’s locker and in the
trash, and the Respondent’s overall erratic behavior, the Supervisor is concerned that the
Respondent was consuming alcohol while working at the College.

Supervising Physician
25. On October 7, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the physician

who signed the Respondent’s Athletic Trainer/Supervising Physician Evaluation and Treatment
 

Protocol (the “Supervising Physician”). He was advised of the Respondent’s behavior, and the
Respondent’s admissions to the Supervisor.

26. On September 16, 2022, the Supervising Physician, Supervisor, and a human
resources representative met with the Respondent to advise her that her Evaluation and Treatment
Protocol and her employment at the College would be terminated.

27. The Respondent apologized for putting the Supervising Physician in this position
as she was working under his medical license.

28. The Supervising Physician also advised the Respondent that the lack of disclosure
of her arrest in July was also a concern, especially coupled with the allegations being made that
she consistently smelled of alcohol and was out of sorts at times.

29. The Supervising Physician does believe that the Respondent practiced as an athletic
trainer while under the influence of alcohol. He also has concerns with the Respondent’s ability to
safely provide care as an athletic trainer.

Seasonal Athletic Trainer

30. On October 7, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the Seasonal
Athletic Trainer (the “SAT”) who worked with the Respondent daily.

31. The SAT described the Respondent’s actions as “erratic.” The Respondent was
known to avoid doing work, did not know what to do or what needed to be done, and was observed
nodding off during a game.

32. | The SAT stated that the Respondent’s odd behaviors became progressively worse
in the weeks leading up to her termination.

33. The SAT explained that the Respondent was constantly running into the training

room while a game was in progress when there was no reason to do so. The Respondent was also
 

known to use the bathroom stall often and take her bookbag with her. She was heard cracking open
cans while in the stall.

34. | The Respondent repeatedly had watery, bloodshot, glassy eyes, and regularly
smelled of fresh alcohol.

35. | The SAT explained that she had concerns about the Respondent’s ability to provide
safe athletic training services to athletes within the State of Maryland. The SAT stated that there
was an “overwhelming smell of alcohol on [the Respondent’s] breath and everyone in the facility
could pick up on this pretty early on...and her behaviors, and the way she was acting as an athletic
trainer didn’t seem ethically sound.”

Interview of the Respondent

36. On October 14, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the
Respondent. In this interview, the Respondent stated:

I was told that I did the wrong thing about the DUT that I got in July and not

reporting it. What was frustrating from that end was I was still trying to figure out

legally if it was even something to bring up...I did personally start to drink more at

home and I was told that I’ve been smelling like alcohol. No one told me...so I

didn’t even know that that was a problem. I did drink on the [College] property[,]

but it was not during work. And there was evidence found in my locker. My own

fault for not taking care of that. But once again that wasn’t me trying to hide it, and

it wasn’t me putting anyone’s life in jeopardy. I just made very terrible decisions

and I’m completely admitting that.

37. The Respondent explained that she “had a lot of things happen within the past
month personally that did contribute” to her drinking more at home.

38. | The Respondent admitted to drinking on the property of the College on September

8, 2022. She had purchased a twelve pack of an alcoholic beverage the night before and it was in

her car. She took the twelve pack out of her car and put it into her bookbag so that no one would
see her with the alcohol. She then went into a remote area of the College and consumed most of
the twelve pack alone.

39, After consuming the alcohol, the Respondent put the empty containers in the brown
paper Wawa bag in her locker. She stated, “I wasn’t trying to hide it, but I put it in there because
I felt like it was going to be easier to throw out in the long run.”

40. The Respondent stated, “I made a bad decision that day to put it there. I just thought
it was convenient and I completely understand that that was just — it was wrong. It was completely
wrong.”

41. | The Respondent denies any knowledge about the other plastic Wawa bag found in
the trash can outside the women’s locker room area full of the same empty alcoholic containers
found in her locker, and with a receipt with her name on it.

42. Despite the numerous allegations, the Respondent denies drinking while on duty
and working as an athletic trainer.

43. The Respondent admitted that she has a prior conviction from 2019 in North
Carolina for Driving While Impaired which she had disclosed to human resources at the time she
was hired by the College.

44, The Respondent failed to disclose her July 11, 2022 arrest for driving under the
influence/while intoxicated by alcohol to her immediate Supervisor and/ or Supervising
Physician.? She stated that she was “unsure about how to go about reporting it.”

45. | When asked during the interview when she last consumed alcohol, the Respondent
stated that she had some alcohol earlier that week, specifically Tuesday, October 11, 2022, because

she “had some other personal issues going on” and she “chose to have a glass of wine.”

3 For privacy and confidentiality reasons, the details of the arrest are not disclosed herein.

8
46. The Respondent stated that she does not believe she has a “true alcohol problem.”
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the above findings of fact, Panel B concludes that the Respondent: is guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of athletic training, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5D-
14(a)(3); is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
5D-14(a)(4); was habitually intoxicated, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5D-14(a)(6); and
provided professional services while under the influence of alcohol, in violation of Health Occ. §
14-5D-14(a)(8)Q).
ORDER
It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby
ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of Athletic Trainer License, issued on
December 7, 2022, and affirmed on December 21, 2022, upon the Respondent’s license, is
terminated as moot; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED, and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice as an athletic trainer in Maryland is
SUSPENDED for a minimum period of SEX MONTHS to commence when this Consent Order
goes into effect.4 During the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms
and conditions of suspension:
(1) During the suspension, the Respondent shall not:
(a) practice as an athletic trainer;
(b) take any actions to hold herself out to the public as a current provider of athletic
training services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider number
by any athletic trainer practice or any other licensee or athletic training provider,

“If the Respondent’s athletic trainer license expires while the Respondent is under suspension,
the suspension period and Consent Order conditions are tolled.

9
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or the State or any athletic trainer; and
(e) perform any other act that requires an active athletic trainer license; and

2. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial
consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals,
rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation A greement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by
the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information to MPRP. The Respondent shall not withdraw her release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities verbal and written
information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive
the health care records of the Respondent. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions including
terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order; and

(g) if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation
program in another state, the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or condition of
that state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this Consent Order. The
Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent forms to authorize the
Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state program verbal
and written information concerning the Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is
authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug and alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall
not withdraw the release/consent; and

3. Within six months, the Respondent is required to take and successfully complete a
course in professionalism. The following terms apply:

10
