IN THE MATTER OF = BEFORE THE

JACQUELINE Q. RIPPLE, ATC x MARYLAND STATE

Respondent = BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: A00676 x Case Number: 2223-0022B
* * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF ATHLETIC TRAINER LICENSE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the athletic trainers license of
JACQUELINE Q. RIPPLE, ATC (the “Respondent”), License Number A00676, in the
State of Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann.. State
Gov’t ("State Gov't") § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol.) and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR")
10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety, and welfare imperatively
requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B. and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by, and made known to and available to
Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:'

* The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the basis of Panel B’s action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily
represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against
the Respondent in connection with this matter.
Introduction

1. Panel B is summarily suspending the Respondent’s athletic trainers license
after a Board investigation revealed that she has a health condition that affects her ability
to practice athletic training safely.

Background/Licensing Information

Ze The Respondent was originally issued an athletic trainers license in
Maryland on September 12, 2014, under License Number A00676. The license expired
on or about September 30, 2017.

3. On June 6, 2022, the Respondent filed an Application for Reinstatement of

Athletic Trainers. The Respondent’s license was reinstated on July 5, 2022.

4, The Respondent’s license expires on September 30, 2023, subject to
renewal.
5; The Respondent was also licensed in Tennessee on or about September 25.

2015. That license expired on or about January 31, 2018.

~

6. The Respondent was also licensed in North Carolina on or about July 27,
2017. That license expired on or about January 31, 2021.

7. There is no known history of disciplinary action on the Respondent's
Tennessee and North Carolina licenses.

8. The Respondent was initially hired as an intern with a local college athletic
association (the “College”) located in Maryland from June 2014 to May of 2015. She was

later hired by the College as an Assistant Athletic Trainer on or about June 1, 2022.
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings.
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel B immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407(a)(2021 Repl. Vol.); and it
is further

ORDERED that this is a disciplinary Order of Panel B, and as such, is a public
document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen Proy. §4-

333(B)(6).

Signature on File
12/07 /Z0ZZ

Date Christine A. Farrelfy Weafeujve Directo,
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

11
The Complaint

9. On or about September 16, 2022, the Board received an Athletic Trainer
Evaluation and Treatment Protocol Agreement Termination Notice (the “Termination
Notice’) stating that the Active Supervisee-Evaluation and ‘Treatment Protocol
Agreement between the Respondent and her supervising physician was terminated due to
“allegations by multiple witnesses of both consumption of alcohol and of being under the
influence of alcohol while in a duty status involving the evaluation and treatment of
student athletes and a failure to report a driving under the influence charge in July of
2022 to her immediate supervisor and her supervising physician.”

Board Investigation

10. The Board initiated an investigation based on the Termination Notice. The
Board notified the Respondent of its investigation by letter dated September 22, 2022 and
directed her to provide a written response.

11. On October 10, 2022, the Respondent provided a written response stating:

I was charged with a DUI in July. I did not report it immediately because |

was trying to figure out the severity of it with my lawyer and have not yet

been to court for it. I was told by my boss that I had been smelling like

alcohol and empty alcohol was found in my locker. I admitted that I had

left it there and it was not consumed on work time.

12. On September 19, 2022, the Respondent underwent an evaluation and was

diagnosed with a health condition.”

* For confidentiality purposes, the complete results and recommendations of the evaluation are not
disclosed herein.
13. As a part of the investigation, Board staff interviewed the Respondent and

several of her colleagues.
Supervisor?

14. On October 6, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the
Director of Sports Medicine at the College (“Supervisor”) who directly supervised the
Respondent. He was initially alerted to the Respondent’s concerning behaviors on or
about August 12, 2022.

15. Several students and employees advised the Supervisor that the Respondent
frequently smelled of alcohol and was heard opening cans while in the stalls in the locker
room.

16. On September 9, 2022, the Supervisor was again alerted to some
concerning behavior by the Respondent during a junior varsity game where she kept
going up to the locker room when there was no reason to do so. Another employee had
also sent the Supervisor a photo of the contents of the Respondent's locker which
included a brown paper Wawa bag full of empty alcoholic beverage containers.

17. On September 12, 2022, the Supervisor inspected the women’s locker room
and found another separate plastic Wawa bag full of empty alcoholic beverage containers
in the trash along with a receipt with the Respondent’s name on it. They were the same

empty containers in the photo of the Respondent’s locker sent to the Supervisor on

> To maintain confidentiality, the names of all witnesses, facilities, employees, and patients will not be used in this
document but will be provided to the Respondent on request.

4
September 9, 2022. The Supervisor reported this information to human resources the
following day.

18. On September 13, 2022, the Supervisor arrived at the College early that
morning to find the Respondent walking out with the brown paper Wawa bag of emply
containers which had previously been found in her locker. The Supervisor also noticed
that the Respondent’s car was inappropriately parked in the middle of two adjoining
parking spaces. The Supervisor asked the Respondent if she was aware that she had
parked in two spaces, and the Respondent advised that she was not aware. She proceeded
to discard the bag of empty cans in the trash and then moved her car to an appropriate
parking space.

19. The Supervisor later approached the Respondent regarding the multiple
allegations of her concerning behavior and the empty cans found in her locker,

20. The Respondent admitted to drinking more due to anxiety at home. She
also admitted to drinking the alcoholic beverages that were found in the brown paper bag
in her locker. The Respondent denied drinking alcohol while at work.

21. The Respondent also disclosed that on July 11, 2022, she was arrested for
driving under the influence/while intoxicated by alcohol and related offenses. The case
has not yet been adjudicated.

22. The Respondent’s behavior was also noted to be a concern when it began to

affect her performance.
23. One employee reported that the Respondent had initially dressed her burn
wound, however, when asked to redress the wound a few days later, the Respondent
attempted to dress the wound inappropriately and had to be directed to do so correctly.

24, The Supervisor recalls asking the Respondent to apply a very basic sling
with a velcro strap to a student’s sprain, and she was unable to do so.

25. Based on the students and employees who reported an odor of alcohol on
the Respondent, the empty cans of alcoholic beverages found in the Respondent’s locker
and in the trash, and the Respondent’s overall erratic behavior, the Supervisor is
concerned that the Respondent was consuming alcohol while working at the college.
Supervising Physician

26. On October 7, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the
physician who signed the Respondent’s Athletic Trainer/Supervising Physician
Evaluation and Treatment Protocol (the “Supervising Physician”). He was advised of the
Respondent’s behavior, and the Respondent’s admissions to the Supervisor.

27. On September 16, 2022, the Supervising Physician, Supervisor, and a
‘human resources representative met with the Respondent to advise her that her
Evaluation and Treatment Protocol and her employment at the College would be
terminated.

28. The Respondent apologized for putting the Supervising Physician in this

position as she was working under his medical license.
29. The Supervising Physician also advised the Respondent that the lack of
disclosure of her arrest in July was also a concern, especially coupled with the allegations
being made that she consistently smelled of alcohol and was out of sorts at times.

30. The Supervising Physician does believe that the Respondent practiced as an
athletic trainer while under the influence of alcohol. He also has concerns with the
Respondent’s ability to safely provide care as an athletic trainer.

Seasonal Athletic Trainer

31. On November 3, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of
the Seasonal Athletic Trainer (the “SAT”) who worked with the Respondent daily.

32. The SAT described the Respondent’s actions as erratic. ‘The Respondent
was known to avoid doing work, did not know what to do or what needed to be done, and
was observed nodding off during a game.

33. The SAT stated that the Respondent’s odd behaviors became progressively
worse in the weeks leading up to her termination.

34. The SAT explained that the Respondent was constantly running into the
training room while a game was in progress when there was no reason to do so. The
Respondent was also known to use the bathroom stall often and take her bookbag with
her. She was heard cracking open cans while in the stall.

35. The Respondent repeatedly had watery, bloodshot, glassy eyes, and
regularly smelled of fresh alcohol.

36. The SAT explained that she had concerns about the Respondent’s ability to

provide safe athletic training services to athletes within the State of Maryland. The SAT

7
stated that there was an “overwhelming smell of alcohol on [the Respondent’s] breath
and everyone in the facility could pick up on this pretty early on...and her behaviors, and
the way she was acting as an athletic trainer didn’t seem ethically sound.”

Interview of the Respondent

37. On October 14, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the
Respondent. In this interview, the Respondent stated:

I was told that I did the wrong thing about the DUI that I got in July and not

reporting it. What was frustrating from that end was | was still trying to

figure out legally if it was even something to bring up...I did personally

start to drink more at home and I was told that I’ve been smelling like

alcohol. No one told me...so I didn’t even know that that was a problem. |

did drink on the [College] property[,] but it was not during work. And there

was evidence found in my locker. My own fault for not taking care of that.

But once again that wasn’t me trying to hide it, and it wasn’t me putting

anyone’s life in jeopardy. I just made very terrible decisions and I’m

completely admitting that.

38. The Respondent explained that she “had a lot of things happen within the
past month personally that did contribute” to her drinking more at home.

39. The Respondent admitted to drinking on the property of the College on
September 8, 2022. She had purchased a twelve pack of an alcoholic beverage the night
before and it was in her car. She took the twelve pack out of her car and put it into her
bookbag so that no one would see her with the alcohol. She then went into a remote area
of the College and consumed most of the twelve pack alone.

40. After consuming the alcohol, the Respondent put the empty containers in

the brown paper Wawa bag in her locker. She stated, “I wasn’t trying to hide it, but I put

it in there because I felt like it was going to be easier to throw out in the long run.”
41. The Respondent stated, “I made a bad decision that day to put it there. I just
thought it was convenient and I completely understand that that was just — it was wrong.
It was completely wrong.”

42. The Respondent denies any knowledge about the other plastic Wawa bag
found in the trash can outside the women’s locker room area full of the same empty
alcoholic containers found in her locker, and with a receipt with her name on it.

43. Despite the numerous allegations, the Respondent denies drinking while on
duty and working as an athletic trainer.

44. The Respondent admitted that she has a prior conviction from 2019 in
North Carolina for Driving While Impaired which she had disclosed to human resourecs
at the time she was hired by the College.

45. The Respondent failed to disclose her July 11, 2022 arrest for driving under
the influence/while intoxicated by alcohol to her immediate Supervisor and/ or
Supervising Physician.’ She stated that she was “unsure about how to go about reporting
it.”

46. When asked during the interview when she last consumed alcohol, the
Respondent stated that she had some alcohol earlier that week, specifically Tuesday.
October 11, 2022, because she “had some other personal issues going on” and she “chose
to have a glass of wine.”

| 47. The Respondent stated that she does not believe she has a “true alcohol
problem.”

“For confidentiality purposes, the details of the arrest are not disclosed herein.

g
CONCLUSION OF LAW
Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, and that
pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's

license is summarily suspended.

ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by State Gov't. §10-
226(c)(2)(2021 Repl. Vol.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent’s license to
practice as an athletic trainer in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY
SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that, during the course of the summary suspension, the Respondent
shall not practice as an athletic trainer in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and Li. a
post deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday,
December 21, 2022, at 11:00 a.m. at the Board’s offices, located at 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel B. if
the Respondent is dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)

days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request.

10
