Richard Falcioni, PA-C

Date: Tan vary, Zs, 2014

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Richard Falcioni, PA-C

License Number: C00537

Case Number: 7718-0120

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§15-312(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland, License Number C00537,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Physician Assistants Practice Act (the “Act”),
Health Occ. §§ 15-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
March 15, 2018, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 15-
314(a)(22) and (40). Specifically, Panel B alleged that I had failed to meet the standards
of quality medical care and keep adequate records for multiple patients. I resolved these
disciplinary charges through entering into a Consent Order with Panel B, dated June 12,
2018 (the “Consent Order”), in which Panel B found that I violated Health Occ. § 15-
314(a)(22) and (40). The Consent Order imposed a reprimand and placed me on
probation for a minimum of two (2) years with certain terms and conditions including
that I cease prescribing controlled dangerous substances, with certain limited exceptions,
that I complete panel-approved courses in recordkeeping and pain management within six
(6) months of the Consent Order, and that I undergo a peer and/or chart review at the
Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Richard Falcioni, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

discretion of Panel B. A copy of the Consent Order is attached and incorporated herein
as Attachment 1.

I admit that I failed to comply with the terms of the Consent Order by failing to
take the required courses within six (6) months of the Consent Order. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid prosecution
for violating the Consent Order and due to my planned retirement. I acknowledge that the
Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however,
upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the
conditions of the Order as long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender. I acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing,
the State would be able to prove that I violated the terms Consent Order by a
preponderance of the evidence.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest any charges related to my violation of the Consent Order. In waiving
my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel
at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own
behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including
the right to appeal to a circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014),
and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose terms and conditions in conformity with or in addition to those set forth in
the Consent Order. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I
will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license
has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
4. During the probationary period, the Respondent is subject to a chart and/or
peer review conducted by the Board or Board disciplinary panel or its agents; and it is
further

ORDERED that the Panel may issue administrative subpoenas to the Maryland
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program on a quarterly basis for the Respondent's CDS
prescriptions. The administrative subpoenas may request a review of the Respondent's

CDS prescriptions from the beginning of each quarter; and it is further

ORDERED that, after TWO (2) YEARS, the Respondent may submit a written
petition to the Board requesting termination of probation. After consideration of the
petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of the Board or Panel. The
Respondent may be required to appear before the Board or Panel to discuss his/her
petition for termination. The Board or Panel will grant the petition to terminate the
probation if the Respondent has complied with all of the probationary terms and
conditions and there are no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that there shall be no early termination of probation or of any conditions
of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before
an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause

hearing before the Board or a Disciplinary Panel; and it is further
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or Disciplinary Panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this
Consent Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel may reprimand the Respondent, place
the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke
the Respondent's license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or Disciplinary
Panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with all laws governing the practice
of medicine under the Maryland Physician Assistants Act and all rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014 & 2016 Supp.).
ni hin bonis fg sf Ko) Ag
Obfiz [201% Christine A. a eee

Date © Christine A. Fartely Axccifve irector f
Maryland State Board of Physicians

     

 

 

U

CONSENT

|, Richard A. Falcioni, PA-C, by affixing my signature hereto, acknowledge that:

8
| am represented by counsel and have consulted with counsel before entering into
this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the sole purpose of resolving the issues
raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent Order and
its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law. I agree to forego my
opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority and
jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and ito issue and enforce this
Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of the
Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the language,

meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

Signature on File

bn F- 2.218

Date Richard A. Falcioni, PA-C
STATE/ DISTRICT OF __ {fd lave}

CITY/COUNTY OF:

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 4 day of _ Sane , 2018, before
me, a Notary Public of the State/District and County aforesaid, personally appeared
Richard A. Falcioni, PA-C, and gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent
Order was his voluntary act and deed.

 

10
Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Richard Falcioni, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the right to
counsel prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s
actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I
make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,
Signature on File
Richard Falcioni, PA-C

NOTARY

STATE OF Mov y lenol
CITY/COUNTY OF _@-(¢11

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this j\S_day of \ nveruf , 2019 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Richard Falcioni, PA-C,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

Notary Public

My commission expires: 1\ |e) 9090

ACCEPTANCE

ace

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B , on this 2S day of Touvarg 2019, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept Richard Falcioni, PA-C’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of his
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

1

  
 
ATTACHMENT 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

RICHARD FALCIONI, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: C00537 * Case Number: 2217-0016B
JE EEO SSO Xu ISITE IE TE I TE HEI IIIa OTITIS III GES AOI III ISTO TAI IAI IAI IAI
CONSENT ORDER

On March 15, 2018, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Richard Falcioni, PA-C (the “Respondent”), License
Number C00537, with violating the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act”), Md.

Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) § 15-314(a) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.).
The pertinent provisions of the Act provide:

(a) Grounds. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum, may reprimand any physician assistant, place any
physician assistant on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if
the physician assistant:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient
surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this
state;

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records[.]

On May 23, 2018, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR’) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings

of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds:
I. BACKGROUND
1. The Respondent is a Physician Assistant. The Respondent was initially licensed
by the Board on September 17, 1981. The Respondent's license is scheduled to expire
on June 30, 2019.
2. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent was a physician assistant
at an urgent care center located in Havre De Grace, Maryland (“Facility A’).
3. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent’s assigned supervising
physician was Physician A. The Board approved the Respondent’s delegation agreement
with Physician A in 2014 for internal medicine duties and urgent care including conducting
histories and physical examinations, interpreting and evaluating patient data,
administering and interpreting EKGs, repairing lacerations and incision and drainage of
superficial abscesses. Pain management and psychiatry were not included in the
requested scope of practice.
4, On or about November 28, 2016, the Board received an anonymous complaint
alleging that a former patient of the Respondent (identified below as “Patient 4”)
presented to Hospital A during the evening of October 2, 2016 purportedly with an
overdose of “Lexapro.” Hospital A conducted a CRISP' search and discovered that
Patient 4 had been prescribed several controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) by the

Respondent through an urgent care center (“Facility A”).

1"CRISP” stands for Chesapeake Regional Information System for our Patients and is a prescription drug
monitoring program (“PDMP”) available to providers in Maryland and the District of Columbia.

2
5. On receipt of the complaint, the Board initiated an investigation which included
issuing a subpoena for a PDMP report of the Respondent’s prescribing, issuing
subpoenas to Facility A for a total of ten patient records and issuing a subpoena to
Hospital A for Patient 4’s records.

6. On or about March 24, 2017, the Board notified the Respondent of the complaint
filed relating to Patient 4 and requested a written response.

7. On or about April 14, 2017, the Respondent submitted a written response to the
Board regarding Patient 4. The Respondent stated that he had no knowledge of Patient
4’s prescription(s) by her primary care provider for oxycodone, or that she had been
treated for an overdose at Hospital A. Shortly thereafter, the Respondent submitted
“summaries of care” for all ten patients as requested by the Board.

8. On or about July 5, 2017, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath at
the Board’s offices. The Respondent acknowledged that he had not completed any
coursework or specialized training in pain management. The Respondent stated that
although his supervising physician is available anytime and has access to the medical
records of the patients the Respondent sees, he does not “typically” call him as he (the
Respondent) has been seeing patients as a PA for 38 years.

9. In furtherance of its investigation, on or about October 24, 2017, Board staff
transmitted ten patient records and other relevant investigative documents to Permedion
requesting that a peer review be conducted of the Respondent's practice. On or about
January 9, 2018, the Board received the peer review report regarding the Respondent's

care and treatment of Patients 1-10.
Ul. PATIENT-RELATED FINDINGS

STANDARD OF CARE VIOLATIONS

10. The peer reviewer found the following deficiencies relating to nine patients
(Patients 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, and 10) that relate in whole or in part to the Respondent's
failure to meet the standard of quality care for patients receiving opioids and/or
benzodiazepines and/or psychiatric medications. The peer reviewer found:

e The Respondent's inadequate use of random urine drug screening to
monitor for abuse or diversion of controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”)
(Patients 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10);

e The Respondent's early prescribing of CDS refills (Patients 1, 2);

e The Respondent's prescribing of CDS to patients for lost or forgotten
medications without documentation of warning or reiteration of policy
(Patients 1, 2);

e The Respondent's failure to obtain narcotics’ contracts (Patient 1, 3, 5, 7);

® The Respondent’s inappropriate prescribing of CDS to patients with a
history of substance abuse disorders (Patients 2, 6, 7);

e The Respondent's prescribing of opioids or other CDS including increasing
dosages without obtaining prior medical records from pain providers, mental
health providers, primary care providers or imaging studies substantiating
legitimate need for opioids (Patient 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10);

e The Respondent's prescribing for chronic pain and or psychiatric
medication management to patients in an acute care setting without
evidence of immediate danger to the patient (Patient 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9,
10),

e The Respondent's prescribing of opioids to patients concurrently with
another provider despite having access to CRISP (Patients 3, 4, 9, 10);

e The Respondent's failure to appropriately refer patients to pain
management providers (Patient 5); and/or

e The Respondent's failure to prescribe adjuvant therapies (Patient 5).

11. The Respondent's care as outlined above in whole or in part is evidence of the
Respondent's failure to meet the standard of quality medical care in violation of Health

Occ. § 15-314(a)(22).
INADEQUATE MEDICAL RECORDKEEPING
12. The peer reviewer found the Respondent's record keeping was inadequate for
eight patients (Patients 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10), for reasons in whole or in part as follows:
e The Respondent failed to accurately list current medications the patient was
being prescribed (Patients 1, 2);
e The Respondent failed to obtain prior medical records from patients’ pain or
mental health providers to justify the diagnoses documented as rationales
for prescribing CDS (Patients 1, 2, 4, 5, 10);
e The Respondent failed to adequately document the patient’s progress on
the medication regimen (Patients 6);
e The Respondent failed to document an adequate evaluation of the patient
including the subjective symptoms (Patients 6, 7, 9, 10); and/or
e The Respondent used a repetitive chronic low back care plan although the
complaint was not complaining of back pain (Patient 7).
13. The Respondent's actions and inactions as outlined in pertinent part above in
whole or in part evidence deficiencies in the Respondent’s record keeping in violation of
Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(40).
Il. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that the

Respondent's conduct constitutes violations of Health Occ. § 15-314(a) (22) and (40).

Ill. ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel
B, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period
of TWO (2) YEARS, and shall fully and satisfactorily comply with the following

probationary conditions:
1. The Respondent shall cease the practice of pain management. The
Respondent is prohibited from prescribing controlled dangerous substances ("CDS"),
except as provided in this paragraph. In emergency cases, the Respondent may issue
no more than one prescription of a CDS to a patient, but the prescription may not exceed
the lowest effective dose and quantity needed for a duration of five days. The prescription
may not be refilled, nor may it be renewed. The Respondent may not prescribe an
emergency prescription for a CDS to a patient more than once per year per patient. The
Respondent shall notify the Board within 24 hours of any prescription authorized under
this paragraph;

2. Within SIX (6) MONTHS of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall
successfully complete a comprehensive Panel-approved course in recordkeeping. The
course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits required for
license renewal. The Respondent must provide documentation to the Board that the
Respondent has successfully completed the course. The course may not be taken over
the internet;

3. Within SIX (6) MONTHS of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall
successfully complete a comprehensive Panel-approved course in the treatment of pain
management. The course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal. The Respondent must provide documentation to the
Board that the Respondent has successfully completed the course. The course may not

be taken over the internet;
