IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

CARL F. OLTMAN, SR., PA-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: C01407 * Case Number: 2221-0144 B
* * x * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On December 12, 2022, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged CARL F. OLTMAN, SR., PA-C (the
“Respondent”), License Number C01407, with violating the Maryland Physician Assistants
Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 15-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.).

Specifically, Panel B charged the Respondent with violating the following
provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 15-314:

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this subtitle, a disciplinary panel,
on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum, may reprimand any
physician assistant, place any physician assistant on probation, or suspend or
revoke a license if the physician assistant:

(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; .. .

(18) Practices medicine with an unauthorized person or aids an unauthorized
person in the practice of medicine; ...

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any
other location in this State; ...
(28) Fails to comply with the provisions of § 12-102 of this article;! ...

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records;

(41) Performs delegated medical acts beyond the scope of the delegation
agreement filed with the Board or after notification from the Board that an

advanced duty has been disapproved; [and]

(45) Fails to comply with any State or federal law pertaining to the practice as a
physician assistant.

On March 22, 2023, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel B finds the following:

Background

1... At all relevant times, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice as a
physician assistant in the State of Maryland. The Respondent originally was licensed to
practice as a physician assistant in Maryland on October 9, 1991, under License Number
C01407. The Respondent's medical license is scheduled for renewal on June 30, 2023.

The Complaints
2. On or about September 29, 2020, the Board received a complaint

(“Complainant No. 1”) concerning a Clinic (the “Clinic”) located in Baltimore County,

1 Section 12-102(c)(2)(i)(3) of the Health Occupations Article requires a physician to
obtain a written permit from the Board to dispense prescription drugs.
No. 1. Although Staff Member No. 1 is not licensed in any health field, Staff Member No.
1 demonstrated a technique to improve the effectiveness of the ICI at causing an erection,
and provided Complainant No. 3 with additional ICIs and a supply of Cialis for use if the
injections again proved ineffective. During the investigation, the Clinic produced three
different notes for this visit, two of which appear to have been prepared during the
pendency of the investigation.

30. Thereafter, on July 28, 2020 at 1:00 pm, Complainant No. 3 again self-
administered the ICI and developed an erection. The erection continued for hours and
developed into painful priapism. Per the instructions provided by the Respondent,
Complainant No. 3 called the Clinic for assistance and was advised to take 4-8 Sudafeds,
drink 6-10 cups of water and return to the Clinic on July 29, 2020. Complainant No. 3
reported he did as he was advised, but the priapism did not abate.

31. Onthe morning of July 29, 2020, Complainant No. 3 arrived at the Clinic at
9:00 am and was administered a shot of phenylephrine in an attempt to relieve the priapism.
The shot did not relieve the priapism. Complainant No. 3 asked the Respondent how long
it would take for the priapism to resolve and was told by the Respondent that it depends.
Complainant No. 3 was sent home by the Respondent who instructed him to drink a lot of
water, take a sitz bath and take Sudafed.

32. On July 30, 2020, Complainant No. 3 returned to the Clinic with priapism.
Complainant No. 3 testified the Respondent again administered a shot of phenylephrine
that failed to relieve the priapism. Complainant No. 3 testified the Respondent again

instructed Complainant No. 3 to take sitz baths and drink plenty of water. During his

11
interview, the Respondent denied that he administered the phenylephrine on July 30, 2020
and stated he was unaware of this visit occurring. Rather, the Respondent stated that Staff
Member No. 1 administered the shot.

33. On Friday, July 31, 2020, Complainant No. 3 returned to the Clinic again
with priapism. Complainant No. 3 was accompanied by his fiancée at this visit. The
Complainant and his fiancée stated that the Respondent came into the room, had a
conversation with Staff Member No. 1, and then left the room. Then, Staff Member No. 1
administered a phenylephrine shot into Complainant No. 3’s penis. Again, there was no
relief; however Complainant No. 3 experienced severe pain when the shot was
administered. The Respondent then returned to the room and gave Complainant No. 3 and
his fiancée instructions to purchase and administer Sudafed before they left the Clinic.

34. The priapism continued and on Saturday, August 1, 2020, Complainant No.
3 and his fiancée called the Clinic for advice on how much Sudafed to take. Staff Member
No. 1 responded with dosage instructions and asked Complainant No. 3 to return to the
Clinic so he could give him another phenylephrine shot before Staff Member No. 1 left for
the day. Complainant No. 3 did not return to the Clinic that day.

35. On Sunday, August 2, 2020, Complainant No. 3 sought treatment at a local
Health Care Facility for priapism. The Health Care Facility documented it was unable “to
get priapism to resolve as expected due to the long duration of 5 days.” A specialist
informed Complainant No. 3 that he likely will require a penile prosthesis due to the

development of fibrosis from prolonged priapism.

12
36. During the treatment of Complainant No. 3, no one from the Clinic including
the Respondent contacted the Physician. The Physician stated the Respondent should have
contacted him since Complainant No. 3 was not responding to usual priapism treatment. _
The Physician also stated that had he been contacted by the Respondent or Clinic staff, he
would have referred Complainant No. 3 to the emergency department or a urologist. Both
the Physician and the Respondent admitted that the Physician did not supervise the
Respondent during his treatment of Complainant No. 3.

Clinic Site Inspection

37. On December 14, 2021, Board staff and a representative from the Maryland
Office of Controlled Substances Administration (“OCSA”) conducted an unannounced site
visit at the Clinic. The purpose of the OCSA presence was to investigate whether any
prescription drugs were being directly dispensed to or prescribed to patients of the Clinic.

38. During this site visit, the Respondent informed OCSA that the drugs
involved in the ICI are compounded by an out-of-state pharmacy (the “Pharmacy”). The
Respondent informed the OCSA that the Pharmacy shipped the drugs both directly to
patients and also to the Clinic which then would dispense to patients onsite. The
Respondent said prescriptions were not provided to patients by the Clinic. The Respondent
admitted to the OCSA that neither he nor the Physician had a dispensing permit issued by
the Board to dispense prescriptions drugs directly to patients of the Clinic.

39. The OCSA also learned during the onsite inspection that the Clinic also
directly dispensed testosterone injections, generic Levitra and generic Cialis to patients.

Testosterone is a Schedule II controlled dangerous substance. Testosterone only for direct

13
administration in the Clinic was ordered using the DEA number of the Physician.
Testosterone ordered to be dispensed directly to patients was ordered under the DEA
number of the Respondent.

40. Based on its inspection, OCSA concluded that the “clinic practitioners are
dispensing prescription drugs, including CDS medications, directly to patients without any
of the practitioners possessing a dispensing permit issued by the Maryland Board of
Physicians.” This is in violation of COMAR 10.13.01.04B. The OCSA also concluded the
“clinic provides an injection to patients with a dosage significantly higher than the highest
recommended dosage in a commercially available product containing the same ingredient.
This compounded product was involved with medical emergencies involving priapism for
patients of the clinic.”

Practice Review of the Respondent

41. As part of its investigation, the Board issued subpoenas to the Clinic for 16
patient records in total and supporting materials and ordered a practice review (referred to
infra as “Patients 1 through 16”). The review was performed by a physician assistant
delegated to work in urology. The patients whose cases were reviewed were adult male
patients to whom the Respondent treated at the Clinic, including Complainant No. 1,
Complainant No. 2, and Complainant No. 3. The Respondent provided a summary of care
for the 16 patients. The reviewer concluded that in nine (9) of the cases reviewed, the
Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care.
The reviewer also concluded that in eleven (11) of the cases reviewed, the Respondent

failed to keep adequate medical records.

14
42. Specifically, the reviewer found the Respondent failed to meet appropriate

standards for the delivery of quality medical care and/or failed to keep adequate medical

records in that the Respondent:

a)
b)

7)

d)

¢)

g)

failed to treat priapism as a medical emergency (Patients 4, 5, and 11);
failed to change or alter ICI dosage after adverse events (Patients 6,
11, 13 and 16);

failed to order appropriate laboratory tests when prescribing
testosterone (Patients 7, 11 and 16);

provided ICI before recommending oral/non-invasive interventions
(Patient 3);

no evidence the Respondent had any interaction with patient (Patient
15),

failed to document physical examination findings, vital signs,
laboratory results, prescriptions and/or antidote dosing for priapism
(Patients 1, 3,5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 15); and

failed to document who saw patient as records not signed (Patient 4).

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that

the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, Health Occ.

§ 15-314(a)(3)(ii); practiced medicine with an unauthorized person or aids an unauthorized

person in the practice of medicine, Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(18); failed to meet appropriate

standards for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient

15
surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this State, Health Occ. § 15-
314(a)(3)(22); failed to comply with the provisions of § 12-102 of this article, Health Occ.
§ 15-314(a)(28); failed to keep adequate medical records, Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(40);
performed delegated medical acts beyond the scope of the delegation agreement filed with
the Board or after notification from the Board that an advanced duty has been disapproved,
Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(41); and failed to comply with any State or federal law pertaining
to the practice as a physician assistant, Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(45).

ORDER

It is thus by a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel B of the Board hereby:

ORDERED that the physician assistant license of CARL F. OLTMAN, SR.,
PA-C, C01407, is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrélly, Executive Diregtgr
Maryland State Board ysicians/

 

 

16
CONSENT

I, Carl F. Oltman, Sr., PA-C, acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments
or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 15-313 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq. concerning
the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other
substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and
substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and
meaning of its terms. . .
Signature On File

4 f XY we

Date Carl F. Oltman, Sr., PA-C

17
NOTARY

STATE OF Wear aN

CITY/COUNTY OF A) A cl

THEREBY CERTIFY that on this CO day of Age. {
2023, before me, a Notary Public of the State and County aforesaid, personally appeared

Carl F. Oltman, Sr., PA-C, and gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent

Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

ASHE,
It,

oh MUMS,

Sar Si,

ss? 1%

SEY ottRy ,

= i me PBS : C

Za. pup igs C e. ¢ - yy
“a2 COUNT’ Notary Public

1 Ow :
My Commission Expires: S Z DO? 2

18
Maryland that offered medical treatment to men for erectile and sexual dysfunction.
Complainant No. 1 stated that he was a prostate cancer survivor and started going to the
Clinic for erectile dysfunction treatment. Complainant No. | shared this information with
his urologist who informed him the Clinic “is out to get over on people and he told me to
stop going there because it’s not safe.” Complainant No. | also stated he spoke to his
insurance company who informed him the Clinic was “a Scam Organization,” and was told
to “contact the Attorney General Office and the Better Business Bureau.” Complainant No.
1 provided an invoice that he was billed $2,700.00 for treatment at the Clinic, and stated
the Clinic “would not take my insurance.”

3. On or about October 29, 2020, the Board received a second complaint
(“Complainant No. 2”) concerning the Clinic. Complainant No. 2 stated the Clinic
“advertises that: ‘Our doctors will provide a personal diagnosis and treatment plan.’”
However, Complainant No. 2 stated he “visited the clinic and was examined by a Physician
Assistant. .. .’ Complainant No. 2 stated he “was never seen by an M.D. or D.O. Does the
Board consider a P.A. to be a doctor? This clinic continues to advertise on [a] Baltimore
radio station.”

4. On or about January 14, 2021, the Board received a third complaint
(“Complainant No. 3”) concerning the Clinic. Complainant No. 3 stated he had filed a
medical malpractice case against the Clinic and the Respondent, who worked as a
Physician Assistant at the Clinic. In part, Complainant No. 3 stated the Clinic “is owned
and operated by a convicted felon. . . [who] operate[s] multiple erectile dysfunction Clinics

across the country.” Complainant No. 3 further stated Clinics in other states allowed “non-
physician Clinic staff ‘determine treatment eligibility and dosing and even allowed them
to administer the injection to patients’ penises.’”

5. After reviewing these complaints, the Board opened an investigation of the
Respondent.

The Board Investigation

6. In furtherance of its investigation, Board staff in part interviewed the
Respondent, a Physician who was employed by the Clinic and supervised the Respondent
pursuant to a Delegation Agreement (the “Physician”), Complainant No. 2 and
Complainant No. 3. Board staff also subpoenaed medical records from the Clinic for
Complainant No. 1, Complainant No. 2 and Complainant No. 3. The Board also received
a written summary of care from the Respondent for Complainant No. 1, Complainant No.
2 and Complainant No. 3. The Board also received appointment logs from the Clinic, and
records from the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”) for the Respondent.
The Board also received a response to the complaints from the Respondent and the
Physician. The Board also received the personnel files from the Clinic for the Respondent,
the Physician and a staff member (“Staff Member No. 1”). The Board also received policies
and procedures from the Clinic. The Board also conducted an onsite inspection of the Clinic
with the Maryland Office of Controlled Substances Administration (““OCSA”).

The Investigation

7. The investigation revealed that since approximately 2017, the Clinic was

registered with the State of Maryland to conduct business. The Clinic advertised that its

“goal is to provide the best treatment options for erectile dysfunction. Our licensed
physicians provide real, long lasting solutions for erectile dysfunction, premature
ejaculation, and low testosterone. Our doctors will provide a personal diagnosis and
treatment plan to safely awaken your sex life in just one visit.” The treatments included
penile injection therapy called an intracavernosal injection (“ICT”), and prescribing
medication to assist men in having and maintaining erections. The Clinic charged
thousands of dollars for these treatments.

8. An ICI is a combination of drugs including alprostadil, papaverine,
phentolamine, and atropine that are injected directly into the penis to provide an erection
immediately after injection.

9. Through at least August 19, 2021, the Physician was listed as the Medical
Director of the Clinic on its website. The Physician stated he was unaware of being
advertised as the Medical Director and stated he did not serve in this capacity.

10. At all relevant times, the Respondent provided treatment to Complainant
No. 1, Complainant No. 2, Complainant No. 3, and other individuals at the Clinic. At all
relevant times, the Physician was the supervising physician for the Respondent at the Clinic
pursuant to a Delegation Agreement.

11. On July 24, 2020, Complainant No. 1 was treated at the Clinic by the
Respondent. During this visit, Complainant No. 1 received an ICI that was performed by
the Respondent. The Respondent stated that the “only person that injects the patients. . . is
the physician assistant in this office that is authorized by my supervising physician.”

12. On September 30, 2020, Complainant No. 2 was treated at the Clinic by the

Respondent. During this visit, Complainant No. 2 received an ICI that was performed by
the Respondent. Complainant No. 2 paid $500.00 as a down payment for his recommended
treatment and was provided an invoice in the amount of $4,430.00.

13. Complainant No. 3 was treated by the Respondent at the Clinic in July and
August 2020. Complainant No. 3 received ICI injections that resulted in him developing
priapism, ultimately resulting in hospitalization and injury to his penis. (See summary of
care for Complainant No. 3 infra.)

14. On April 19, 2022, Board staff interviewed the Physician under oath. In the
interview, the Physician stated since 2009, he has been the medical director of a State of
Maryland government agency. In addition, the Physician testified that in approximately
2016, he was hired by the Clinic to work “one to two days a month.” The Physician stated
the Clinic is “an erectile dysfunction clinic. It fills an itch between the little blue pill, when
the oral agents aren’t working, and for individuals who aren’t ready to get surgical
procedures done. So it provides them with injection therapy.” The Physician stated he did
not have any “specific training in erectile dysfunction.” The Physician stated as “an ER
doctor it’s within my scope to do the rescue procedures for priapism.”

15. | The Physician testified that he is “in the clinic usually a part day every week
to two weeks.” The Physician stated he is paid “a flat rate of $250 a week basically to
provide supervision and follow up and guidance for [the P.A.]. .. . [just supervise the P.A.
now.” The Physician has not performed any clinical duties at the Clinic since
approximately 2020. The Physician stated “I function as [the P.A.’s] oversight and

supervisor, supervision. I’m not Clinically in the Clinic — I won’t say never, but any
extensive period of time.” The Physician has been supervising the Respondent pursuant to
a Delegation Agreement since 2018.2

16. The Delegation Agreement identified the Physician’s primary practice areas
as urology and internal medicine. The Physician admitted that his primary practice area is
emergency medicine, and that the Delegation Agreement was “errantly marked” by
someone other than himself. The Physician also stated in the Delegation Agreement that
he would review the Respondent’s practice via “chart review, observation of clinical
practice” and provide supervision via on site, electronic means and written instructions.
The Physician admitted that he never provided written instructions to the Respondent. The
Physician stated that he occasionally talked to the Respondent on the telephone. The
Physician stated he initially provided “chart review, and now that’s predominantly verbal
conversation regarding patients who present issues.” The Physician testified he looks at
charts by the Respondent “only infrequently, if there is a specific issue with them.”

17. In the Delegation Agreement, the Physician and the Respondent did not seek
approval from the Board for the Respondent to treat priapism. Additionally, the Physician
and the Respondent did not seek approval from the Board for the Respondent to delegate
treatment of priapism to medical assistants. Despite this, the Respondent treats priapism
with phenylephrine injections without seeking permission from the Physician or having

been approved to do so by the Board.

2 A “Delegation Agreement” is ““a document that is executed by a primary supervising
physician and a physician assistant containing the requirements of § 15-302 of this title.”
Md. Health Occ. Code Ann. § 15-101(i). (Note: § 15-302 sets forth the requirements of a
delegation agreement and practice).
18. Rather than see a licensed physician, patients of the Clinic are treated by the
Respondent. Also, Staff Member No. 1, who does not hold a license in any medical field,
and a CNA/Phlebotomist (Staff Member No. 2) assist the Respondent.

19. Inhis interview, the Respondent testified all staff follow a script written by
the Owner of the Clinic. The Owner is not a trained medical professional. The Respondent
stated “[t]here’s a script for everything. . . There’s a script for answering the phone, there’s
a script for therapy coordinator, there’s a script for me.”

20. The Clinic has guidelines written by the Owner that every patient receives an
ICI consisting of a mix of mostly non-FDA approved vasodilators to cause the patients to
obtain immediate erections. The Respondent stated he prescribed ICIs to 75-80% of his
patients and is aware that compared to oral medications like Viagra, the ICI he administers
carries an increased risk of priapism. Priapism is a medical emergency and may cause
permanent tissue damage and loss of penile function (fibrosis) if not successfully treated
within 36-48 hours of onset. Despite being the only healthcare provider onsite at the Clinic
for treating priapism, the Respondent stated he did not know how long it takes priapism to
cause fibrosis.

21. When a patient reports priapism, Clinic staff, including Staff Member No. 1,
first tell the patient to take Sudafed, drink water and take warm baths. If these methods do
not relieve the priapism, the Clinic does not tell the patient that they are facing a medical
emergency and to go to the emergency room for prompt treatment. Staff Member No. 1
stated that “I do not advise patients to go to the ER. I have always talked to [the

Respondent] before recommending anything in that area.” Instead, Clinic staff instructs the
patient to return to the Clinic where he will receive a shot of phenylephrine in an attempt
to relieve the priapism.

22. While the Clinic prepares emergency room referral forms for all of its
patients prescribed ICIs, it is not Clinic policy and practice to send patients to an emergency
room for priapism. The Respondent testified that if a patient experienced priapism
following an ICI, he would expect the patient to call the Clinic first. The Respondent stated
he recalls referring two patients of the Clinic to the emergency department. However, this
was only after the patients returned to the Clinic and were administered phenylephrine that
did not relieve the priapism. Additionally, the Physician testified that he only is contacted
by the Respondent every three to four months regarding a patient with priapism.

23. The Respondent stated he is responsible for supervising the medical
assistants at the Clinic, including Staff Member No. 1 and Staff Member No. 2. Although
Staff Member No.1 and Staff Member No. 2 are not licensed to practice medicine, the
Respondent testified that the “medical assistants are trained in giving phenylephrine shots
to treat priapism. They come in in the middle of the night sometimes, when I’m not
available. They come in on weekends, when I’m not available. I’m always apprised of it.”

24. Staff Member No. 1 stated that his role at the Clinic was limited. “Yeah, I
prepare-stock the rooms. Just escort patients to the rooms to meet with [the Respondent].
Sterilize the office and all that.” Nevertheless, Staff Member No. 1 acknowledged that the
Clinic trained him to administer phenylephrine injections into the penises of Clinic patients
experiencing priapism. Staff Member No. | claimed that he had never administered

phenylephrine to any patients. However, Complainant No. 3, his fiancée, and the
Respondent testified that Staff Member No. 1 administered phenylephrine to Complainant
No. 3 to treat his priapism. (See summary of care for Complainant No. 3 infra.)

25. Staff Member No. 2 denied that he ever gave a patient any ICIs or
phenylephrine shots.

26. The Physician stated that he was unaware the Respondent allowed medical
assistants to administer phenylephrine, and that medical assistants should not be
administering phenylephrine when the Respondent was unavailable.

Complainant No. 3

27. On July 20, 2020, Complainant No. 3 contacted the Clinic concerning his
erectile dysfunction after hearing radio advertisements. On July 21, 2020, Complainant No.
3 initially met with the Clinic Manager who told him “a physician will attend to you
shortly.”

28. Complainant No. 3 met with the Respondent for his initial consultation.
During the consultation, the Respondent only recommended an ICI. The Respondent
admittedly did not discuss less-invasive oral erectile dysfunction medications such as
Viagra with Complainant No. 3. At the initial consultation, Complainant No. 3 received an
ICI as the Respondent advised. However, the ICI failed to produce an erection while
Complainant No. 3 was at the Clinic. The Respondent instructed Complainant No. 3 to
administer two ICIs himself at home during the week. Complainant No. 3 self-administered
the ICI on July 23, 2020 and July 26, 2020, both times without results.

29. On Tuesday July 28, 2020, Complainant No. 3 returned to the Clinic for a

scheduled follow-up appointment. On this day, Complainant No. 3 met with Staff Member

10
