IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ALLYSON L. CONLEY, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
RESPONDENT * OF PHYSICIANS

LICENSE NUMBER: C01527 * CASE NUMBER: 2016-0368 B

HRERRERERERE ERR RERER ERE EER ER ERR EERE ERIE REI IIIRIK ITAA a a a a aC az RQ

CONSENT ORDER
On April 27, 2016, Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) voted to charge Allyson L. Conley, PA-C (“Physician
Assistant’), (the “Respondent”), License Number C01527, under the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II”)
§ 15-314 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.).
The pertinent provisions under §15-314 of the Act provide the following:
(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-314 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum, may reprimand any physician assistant, place any
physician assistant on probation, or suspend or revoke a license
if the physician assistant:
(2)  Fraudulently or deceptively uses a license;
(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine;

(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any
narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article;
(9) Provides professional services:

(ii) While using any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance defined in §5-101
of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug
that is in excess of therapeutic amounts
or without valid medical indication;

(11) Willfully makes or files a false report or record
in the practice of medicine[.]

Prior to issuance of formal charges, Respondent agreed to enter into the
following public Consent Order, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of
Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B makes the following findings of fact:

I. Background

1. At all times relevant, Respondent was, and is, a licensed physician
assistant in the State of Maryland.

2. Respondent initially obtained her physician assistant license in
Maryland on July 20, 1993. On or about May 15, 2015, Respondent last
renewed her license, which will expire on June 30, 2017.

3. Respondent was employed as a physician assistant for an urgent
care clinic (“Clinic 1”), in Olney, Maryland from February 2015 until November 9,
2015. Prior to working for Clinic 1, Respondent had been employed as a
physician assistant in the emergency department of a hospital (“Hospital 1”) in

Maryland from October 1993 until September 2014.
Il. Complaint

4. On or about November 9, 2015, the Board received a complaint
regarding Respondent submitted by the Vice President of Medical Services (the
“Vice President”) at Clinic 1. In the complaint, the Vice President stated that
Respondent “took narcotics from [Clinic 1’s] narcotic inventory without
appropriate documentation, for reasons other than patient care.” The Vice
President included a videotape and medication logs to confirm the allegations.
The Vice President attached to the complaint a letter of November 9, 2015 to
Respondent, in which the Vice President terminated Respondent “effective
immediately” from Clinic 1 “for cause.”

5. The Board opened an investigation of the complaint.
ll. Investigative Findings

6. On December 4, 2015 the Board received a letter and the
Respondent's file from a Clinical Manager at the Maryland Physician Health
Program (“MPHP”). The Clinical Manager reported that:

a. On November 10, 2015, Respondent enrolled in MPHP.

b. On November 10, 2015, Respondent signed a Voluntary
Practice Cessation Agreement.

7. On December 11, 2015, pursuant to a subpoena, the Board
received Respondent's personnel file from Clinic 1.

8. On December 22, 2015, the Board directed Respondent to submit a
written response to the complaint.

9. On January 5, 2016, Respondent responded in writing to the Board.

Respondent admitted that she “knowingly remove[d] a small amount of Tylenol

3
with Codeine Elixir' from four bottles in a locked narcotics cabinet” from Clinic 1’s
narcotic inventory “without a prescription for my personal use.” Respondent
further stated that she has had “difficulties with opiate dependence” and
subsequently became dependent on narcotics after her orthopedist prescribed
Oxycodone following Respondent's total knee replacement in 2007. Respondent
stated that she subsequently developed chronic neck and low back pain due to
misalignment of the spine was prescribed large amounts of opiates by a pain

management physician.

10. On February 4, 2016 Board staff interviewed Respondent, under

oath who stated the following:

a. Respondent admitted that on or about October 28, 2015, she
took approximately 2 ounces of Tylenol with codeine elixir
from four (4) different 4 ounce bottles from Clinic 1’s narcotic
inventory. Respondent stated that she took these narcotics
for her personal use.

b. Respondent stated that during an inspection the following
day, a nurse noticed a number of open bottles. After
reviewing videotapes, Clinic 1 discovered that Respondent
had been in the narcotics cabinet several times the day
before.

c. Respondent admitted that in or about May or June 2015, she
began to take narcotics, such as Vicodin tablets,? without
permission from Clinic 1’s narcotic inventory. Respondent
stated that she took between one and two tablets of
narcotics “about two times a month. It all depended on the
opportunity...If the opportunity was there, | did take it.”
Respondent further stated that she did this “maybe — I’m
going to say about six (times).”

‘ This combination medication is used to help relieve mild to moderate pain. It contains a narcotic
pain reliever (codeine) and a non-narcotic pain reliever (acetaminophen).

? Vicodin contains a combination of acetaminophen and hydrocodone. Hydrocodone is a narcotic
pain medication.

4
Respondent admitted to improperly documenting patients’
medication(s) in the patients’ medical records. Respondent
explained that “if | had ordered two tablets of something for a
patient and they only took one, | had the opportunity to take
the other one.” Respondent acknowledged that she
documented in the patient's medical record that the patient
received two tablets, when in fact she only gave the patient
one tablet.

Respondent also admitted to replacing one or several bottles
of Tylenol with Codeine with regular Tylenol on one (1)
occasion.

Respondent admits to consuming the stolen narcotics while
on duty as a physician assistant at Clinic 1 “about half of the
time.”

Respondent further admitted to taking narcotics, without
permission for her personal use, “at least one day a week”
while employed at Hospital 1 when Respondent did not have
narcotics as prescribed by her doctor. Respondent began to
steal narcotics from Hospital 1 in or about 2013 until she
resigned in September of 2014. According to Respondent,
Hospital 1 was not aware that Respondent removed
narcotics for her personal use.

Respondent further admitted to consuming narcotics while
on duty as a physician assistant at Hospital 1. Respondent
stated that she did this “not all the time but | did, at times.”

IV. Summary Findings

11. Respondent's removal of narcotics from Clinic 1’s_ narcotic

inventory while on duty as a physician assistant without a prescription and for her

personal use is evidence that Respondent “... deceptively uses a license” in

violation of Health Occ. II § 15-314(a)(2)

12. Respondent's conduct, including but not limited to:

a.

Removing narcotics on at least ten (10) occasions from the
narcotic inventory at Clinic 1;

Having a history of removing narcotics from inventories at
Clinic 1 and Hospital 1 for personal use; and

5
Cc. Self-administering narcotics while on duty as a physician
assistant at Clinic 1,

is evidence that Respondent “is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine’ in violation of Health Occ. Il § 15-314(a)(3)(ii).

13. Respondent's history of abusing prescription narcotic pain
medication is evidence that Respondent “is addicted to or habitually abuses any
narcotic or controlled dangerous substance” in violation of Health Occ. Il § 15-
314(a)(8).

14. | Respondent's admission that she self-administered narcotics while
on duty at Clinic 1 is evidence that Respondent “provid[ed] professional services
[at Clinic 1] while using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance defined
in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is in excess of
therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication” in violation of Health
Occ. Il § 15-314(a)(9)(ii).

15. | Respondent's admissions, including but not limited to:

a. Illegitimately removing narcotics from the narcotic inventory
and documenting in the medication log as if the patient had
received it;

b. Falsely documenting that she had dispensed more narcotic

medication to patients than she actually dispensed;

c. Failing to document in the patients’ medical records an
accurate count of narcotics dispensed to patients;

d. Replacing at several bottles of Tylenol with Codeine with
regular Tylenol;

is evidence that Respondent “willfully makes or files a false report or record in the

practice of medicine” in violation of Health Occ. II § 15-314(a)(11).
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of
law that Respondent violated Health Occ. Il § 15-314 (2) (... deceptively uses a
license); (3)(ii)(Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine);
(8)(Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance as defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article); (9)(ii)(Provides
professional services: while using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is in
excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication); and
(11)(Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of medicine).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is on
the affirmative vote of a majority of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that Respondent's license to practice medicine is retroactively
SUSPENDED from November 10, 2015.° During the suspension, Respondent
shall fully and satisfactorily comply with all of the following terms and conditions:

1. Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (“MPRP”). Within five (5) business days, Respondent
shall contact MPRP to schedule an_ initial consultation for
enrollment. Within fifteen (15) business days, Respondent shall
enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and
timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and
requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions

of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully

3 if the Respondent fails to renew her license during the period of suspension, the suspension will
not be terminated until her license is reinstated. COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a). If the Respondent's
license expires, she will have to apply for and meet the requirements for reinstatement before
petitioning the Panel for termination of the suspension. See COMAR 10.32.02.06A (4).

7
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

2. Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP. Respondent shall sign
the release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and
written disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any and all
MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. Respondent shall
also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Respondent's current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Respondent
and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health
and drug or alcohol treatment records; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license shall remain suspended until

the MPRP determines that the Respondent is fit to return to practice. If the
MPRP determines that Respondent can safely practice as a physician assistant,
and if Respondent has successfully complied with the conditions above,
Respondent may petition the Board or Panel B, serving as the Reinstatement
Inquiry Panel of the Board, to lift the suspension of Respondent's license. Upon
reinstatement, the Board or Panel B may impose conditions on Respondent's
return to practice, and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period

prescribed in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The
Consent Order goes into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive
Director, who signs on behalf of Panel B, and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling

the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
 

ORDERED that the Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md.

Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg.

Date

      

Christine A. Farr
Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

CONSENT
1, ALLYSON L. CONLEY, PA-C License No. C01527, by affixing my

signature hereto, acknowledge that:

1. | have consulted with counsel, Carolyn Jacobs, Esquire, and knowingly
and voluntarily elected to enter into this Consent Order. By this
Consent and for the purpose of resolving the issues raised by the
Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent Order
and its conditions.

2: | am aware that | am entitled to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il § 15-313 (2014 Repl. Vol.) and Md.
Code Ann., State Gov't II §§ 10-201 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.).

8 | acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if
entered into after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in
which | would have the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and to all other
substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. | am
waiving those procedural and substantive protections.

4. | voluntarily enter into and agree to abide by the terms and conditions
set forth herein as a resolution of the Charges against me. | waive
any right to contest the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and |
waive my right to a full evidentiary hearing, as set forth above, and any
right to appeal this Consent Order or any adverse ruling of the Board
that might have followed any such hearing.

5. | acknowledge that by failing to abide by the conditions set forth in this
Consent Order, | may be subject to disciplinary actions, which may
include revocation of my license to practice medicine.
 

6. | sign this Consent Order voluntarily, without reservation, and_| fully
understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms of this
Consent Order.

é/erlrg Wldyeim K” Cobows
Date Allyson L¢ Conley, PA-C

Respondent

NOTARY

STATE OF MARYLAND
CITY/COUNTY OF : .

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 7 “day of Sfaae , 2016
before me, a Notary Public of the State and County aforesaid, personally
appeared Allyson L. Conley, PA-C, License number C01527, and gave oath in
due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and
deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal,

“Phase Vhapes Wary,
) My,
Notary Public SP MARY yy

My commission expires: 9-10 -1@

"23!

angyaw

sa NY
s
es
4

2 2S
x Ss

7]

X\ “uy
mM
mS O03
= ae
3
yw

is
QO
Wy,

eS
414, DEL CO
nw

10
