Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C

Arun Bhandari, Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C

License Number: C01577

Case Number: 7719-0099

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§15-312 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland, License Number C01577,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 15-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
January 25, 2019, Panel A issued charges entitled, Amended Violation of Board Order and
Notice to Show Cause, alleging that I violated the terms and conditions of the Disposition
Agreement based on my failure to comply with my MPRP Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement. On February 13, 2019, I attended a show cause hearing before Panel A, with
my counsel present. At the hearing, I admitted that I had violated the Disposition
Agreement. On April 11, 2019, the Order After Show Cause Hearing was issued, which
terminated the August 26, 2015 Disposition Agreement, suspended my license for a
minimum of six (6) months, and upon the termination of the suspension, imposed a
minimum probationary period of five (5) years. During the suspension and the probation,
I was required to remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in my Participant Rehabilitation
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. A copy of the Order After
Show Cause Hearing is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

I acknowledge that I failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the Order
After Show Cause Hearing by violating my MPRP Participant Agreement. As a result,
Panel A voted to charge me with violating the terms of the Order After Show Cause
Hearing. I acknowledge that the Order After Show Cause Hearing remains and will
continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of
Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Order After Show
Cause Hearing.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution for violating the Order After Show
Cause Hearing. I acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be
able to prove that I violated the Order After Show Cause Hearing by a preponderance of
the evidence and that such charges shall be treated as proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest any charges related to my violation of the Order After Show Cause
Hearing. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be
represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to a circuit court.

[ understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action
by Panel A.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may
impose terms and conditions in conformity with or in addition to those set forth in the Order
After Show Cause Hearing: I further understand that if I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make to make it clear that ] have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
ORDERED that Ms, Ferguson shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it
is further

‘ORDERED that, after a minimum of five years has passed and Ms, Ferguson has fully
. .and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the probation, Ms. Ferguson may
-submit a written petition for termination of probation.. After consideration of the petition, the
probation may be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel... Ms. Ferguson may be
required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss her petition for termination, The
disciplinary panel may grant the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the
disciplinary panel if Ms. Ferguson has successfully complied with all of the probationary terms
and conditions and there are no pending complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if Ms. Ferguson allegedly fails.to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Ms, Ferguson shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If
there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law
' Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a
disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Ms. Ferguson shall be
given a show cause hearing before Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Ms. Ferguson has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand Ms, Ferguson, place Ms, Ferguson on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke Ms. Ferguson’s license to practice as a
Physician Assistant in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the

sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on Ms. Ferguson; and it is further
_ ORDERED that Ms. Ferguson is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it further
ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her. designee. The Executive Director signs the Order on
behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Order; and it
is further
ORDERED that this Order After Show Cause Hearing is a public document. See Md.

Code Ann., Health Occ, §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File’

Date Christine A. F arly, Hoeyutive Dirgcfor
Maryland State Board hysician

 
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Panel A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this
letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I acknowledge that I
understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C

NOTARY
STATE OF Wasa al a
CITY/COUNTY OR yy Awad

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this “6 day of Su\ Me , 2019 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-
C and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.
HEATHER L CADWELL

Notary Public ~ State of Maryland
Howard County ’ iD \ !
My Commission Expires Dec 29. 2021 MAL .
Otary Public

My commission expires: \2\3° (a0

    

ACCEPTANCE

 

Farrelly, accept Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C PUBLIC SU ER of his/her license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this | } day of Sy / ; 2019, I, Christine A.

e e
Signature on File
Christine A. Farrelly, Heenfivepoinector
Maryland Board of Physici
ATTACHMENT 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MARY KATE FERGUSON, PA-C* . MARYLAND STATE
Respondent tO BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: C01577 * Case Number: 7716-0010A

* * | * * * * * . * * * * “o* *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On August 26, 2015, Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C, entered into a Disposition
Agreement with Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel.A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the “Board”) wherein she agreed to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(“MPRP”), comply with all of MPRP’s recommendations, and fulfill all conditions of the —
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. On January 25, 2019, Panel A issued an Amended
Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause, charging Ms. Ferguson with violating the
terms and conditions of the Disposition Agreement based on-her failure to comply with her
MPRP Participant Rehabilitation ‘Agreement! On February 13, 2019, Panel A held a show cause
hearing where Ms. Ferguson was represented by counsel and admitted that she violated ‘the
Disposition Agreement.”

. FINDINGS OF FACT
Background
Ms. Ferguson was initially licensed in Maryland as a physician assistant on April 25,

1994, On May 17, 2015, Ms. Ferguson submitted an application for the renewal of her physician

' The Amended Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause superseded the December 14, 2018 Violation
of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause. .

2 Because Ms. Ferguson acknowledges the violations of her Participant Rehabilitation - Agreement, the violations are
undisputed, Therefore, it is unnecessary to detail the nature of the violations in this Order.
assistant license, The Board opened an investigation based on information contained in Ms.
Ferguson’s renewal application. The Board’s investigation revealed that Ms. Ferguson was
convicted of Driving Under the Influence (“DUI”) on two occasions in 2014. On August 26,
2015, Ms. Ferguson entered into a non-public Disposition Agreement with the Board in lieu of
further investigation into the DUI convictions.
Disposition Agreement

Pursuant to the terms of the Disposition Agreement, Ms. Ferguson’ agreed to enter into a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP. The Disposition Agreement states, “The
Respondent shall comply with the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement into which she entered
with MPRP and will fulfill all conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement[.]” The
Disposition Agreement further provides, .

AGREED, that if the Respondent fails to comply with any term or condition of

this Agreement, a Board panel, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, may

take any action. prescribed under Section. 15-314(a) of the Maryland Medical

Practice Act which includes a reprimand, probation, or the suspension or

revocation of the Respondent’s physician assistant licensure,

On September 18, 2015, Ms. Ferguson entered into a five-year Participant Rehabilitation

Agreement with MPRP.

Violation of Disposition Agreement

In June of 2018, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms. Ferguson had violated her
Participant Rebabilitation Agreement. By letter dated June 11, 2018, the Board requested a
response from Ms, Ferguson regarding the report of her violation, In a letter to the Board, dated
June 16, 2018, Ms, Ferguson admitted that she violated her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement

and provided an explanation to the Board regarding the circumstances surrounding the violation.
Ms, Ferguson stated that she was “recommitting” to the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and detailed steps she was taking to address the violation.

By email dated November 5, 2018, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms, Ferguson had
violated her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement for a second time. In a letter dated November
12, 2018, Ms. Ferguson provided an explanation to the Board regarding the circumstances of the
violation, indicated that it was “an honest mistake,” and reiterated her commitment to stay in
compliance with her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement.

On January 7, 2019, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms. Ferguson had violated her
‘Participant Rehabilitation Agreement for the third time. Ina letter dated January 10, 2019, Ms.
Ferguson acknowledged that she violated her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement, provided an
explanation to the Board regarding the circumstances of the violation, and acknowledged that she

needed an intensive program.

Show Cause Hearing
On January 25, 2019, Panel A:issued an Amended Violation of Board Order and Notice

to Show Cause charging Ms. Ferguson with violating the Disposition Agreement based on the
three violations ‘of her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. On February 13, 2019, Ms,
Ferguson appeared with counsel at a show cause hearing before Panel A. At the hearing, Ms.
Ferguson admitted that she violated the Disposition Agreement. Ms. Ferguson requested the
Panel to refrain from suspending her license and, instead, impose a sanction of a reprimand and
five years of probation, The administrative prosecutor, on behalf of the State, advocated for a

minimum sanction of a reprimand and five years of probation.

- CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Panel A concludes that Ms. Ferguson violated the terms and conditions of the August 26,
2015 Disposition Agreement by failing to comply with the terms of her MPRP Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Disposition Agreement, the Panel is
authorized to impose additional sanctions on Ms. Ferguson’s license, ranging from a reprimand
to revocation.
SANCTION
In determining the appropriate sanction in this case, the Panel has taken into
consideration the presentations of both parties at the show cause hearing and the close proximity
in time of the three admitted violations. Both the State and Ms. Ferguson advocated for
continued treatment and participation with MPRP. The Panel has serious concerns as a result of
the three violations in approximately a six-month period and finds that a six-month suspension
with continued participation in MPRP, followed by a five-year period of probation, is
‘appropriate and needed.
. ORDER
On an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, it is hereby
ORDERED that the August 26, 2015 Disposition Agreement is terminated; and it is
further
ORDERED that Ms. Ferguson’s license to practice as a Physician Assistant in Maryland
(License Number C01577) is SUSPENDED?’ for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS.‘ During the

period of suspension, Ms. Ferguson shall comply with all of the following terms and conditions:

3 During the suspension period, Ms. Ferguson shall not:

(1) practice as a Physician Assistant;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold herself out to the public as a current
provider of medical services;

(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of Ms. Ferguson’s name or provider number by any health care
practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

4
1. Ms. Ferguson shall remain’ enrolled in MPRP and continue in her Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, as follows:

A. Ms. Ferguson shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

B. Ms. Ferguson’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order;

Cc, Ms. Ferguson shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order, A failure to, or withdrawal of consent is a violation of this Order;

D. Ms. Ferguson shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of Ms. Ferguson’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Ms. Ferguson and to ensure
that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Ms. Ferguson,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records; and

2, Ms. Ferguson shall establish and implement a procedure by which Ms. Ferguson’s
patients may obtain their medical records without undue burden and notify all patients of
that procedure; and it is further
ORDERED that Ms, Ferguson shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it

is further
ORDERED that, after a minimum of six months has passed and Ms. Ferguson has. fully

and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension, Ms, Ferguson may

submit a written petition for termination of suspension. ‘After determination that Ms. Ferguson

 

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the state;
(5) dispense medications; or :
(6) perform any other act that requires an active Physician Assistant license.

‘If Ms. Ferguson’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be tolled.

5
has complied with the relevant terms of the suspension, the disciplinary panel may
administratively terminate Ms. Ferguson’s suspension through an order of the disciplinary panel; °
and it is further .

ORDERED that, upon termination of the cuspension, Ms. Ferguson will be placed on
PROBATION for a minimum period of FIVE (5) YEARS» During the probationary period
Ms. Ferguson shall comply with the following probationary terms and conditions:

1, Ms, Ferguson shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in her Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, as follows:

A. Ms. Ferguson shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s). entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

B. Ms. Ferguson’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order,

Cc. Ms. Ferguson shall sign and update the written release/consent forms —
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public |
order. A failure to, or withdrawal of consent is a violation of this Order;

Dz Ms. Ferguson shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e. disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of Ms. Ferguson’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Ms. Ferguson and to ensure
that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Ms. Ferguson,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records; and

2. Ms. Ferguson shall comply with the Maryland Physician Assistants Act, Md,
Code ‘Ann., Health Occ, §§ 15-101—15-502, and all federal and state laws and
regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

5 IfMs, Ferguson’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.

6
