IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

VICKEY K. MANNING, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: C01603 * Case Numbers: 2015-0890B
CONSENT ORDER

On September 21, 2016, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”), charged VICKEY K. MANNING, PA-C (the
“Respondent’), under the Maryland Physician Assistant Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. (“H.O.”) §§ 15-101 et seq. The pertinent provisions of the Act provide the
following:
§ 15-314. Reprimand, probation, suspension, revocations.
(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum, may
reprimand any physician assistant, place any physician assistant on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the physician assistant:
(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; [and]
(42) Performs delegated medical acts without the supervision of a physician[.]
On December 21, 2016, a conference with regard to this matter was held before
Panel B of the Board's Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution ("DCCR"). As a

result of the DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting

of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.
I. BACKGROUND

1. At all relevant times, the Respondent was and is a physician assistant licensed in
the State of Maryland. She was initially licensed in Maryland on June 30, 1994. Her
Maryland license is current and is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2017.

2. At all times relevant, the Respondent was employed as a physician assistant at
Practice A.

Self-Prescribing Allegations

3. On or about July 7, 2015, the Board received the Respondent's Physician
Assistant License Renewal Application ("renewal application”) on which the Respondent
answered "yes" to the question, "Has your employment by any health care employer
been affected by disciplinary actions including probation, suspension, loss or limitation
of privileges, reprimand, transfers to other duties or termination of employment or
contract?" On her application, the Respondent stated "personality conflict" as the
explanation.

4. Thereafter, the Board initiated an investigation.

5. On or about June 26, 2015, the Board requested that the Respondent provide a
detailed explanation for the "yes" answer on her renewal application. The Board
received the Respondent's explanation on or about July 7, 2015.

6. According to the Respondent, on August 8, 2014 she was suspended and later
terminated from her employment at Practice A for self-prescribing controlled dangerous
substances ("CDS"). The Respondent explained that she was "re-filling" two to three
non-CDS medications that were in her electronic medical record ("EMR") profile when

she inadvertently renewed a schedule IV CDS. She further explained that when she
 

NOTARY

STATE OF MARYLAN -
CITY/COUNTY OF / yt

y e hu
| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this /. day of ~ , 2017 before me, a
Notary Public of the foregoing State personally appeared Vickey K. Manning, PA-C, and

made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her

yonttabh to} and deed, and the statements made herein are true and correct.

 

Ss

~S e000 0, Me,

SM a eS, .
$s MM 2% AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.
gaf _. \*: fi Z
2 3 i: —4 } } -
SU OAS S /Niruy © pale

Ze, Wy peorereeee?’ eS -

Gy, S809 °2 Notary Publ

“aggsagar®

My Commission Expires: 2 /// /AO
realized her error, she asked a medical assistant! to destroy the prescription and made
a note in her EMR indicating her mistake. The Respondent stated that on the following
day she was approached by Practice A administration and suspended pending the
outcome of an investigation. Ultimately, Practice A terminated the Respondent's
employment.

7. On or about December 7, 2015, a member of the Board's staff interviewed the
Respondent under oath. A member of the Board's staff conducted a follow-up interview
of the Respondent on July 6, 2016.

8. During her investigative interview with Board staff, the Respondent stated that
she refilled the prescription by mistake and immediately realized that "you can't write
that for yourself." The Respondent stated that she made a note in her medical record
documenting her mistake.

9. The Respondent further stated that she did not self-prescribe, but rather, she re-
filled existing medications that had been previously prescribed by her treating
physicians. The Respondent denied that she refilled CDS prescriptions but admitted
that she would "sometimes" make a note in her medical record.

10. The Respondent further stated that she never retrieved the printed schedule IV
CDS prescription and therefore never filled it.

11. A review of the schedule IV CDS prescription revealed that the Respondent is

listed as the prescriber. The Respondent stated that Physician A originally prescribed

' The Respondent could not recall the medical assistant's name, but the medical assistant was later
identified by a staff member at Practice A.
the schedule IV CDS to her on one occasion, prior to a surgical procedure in January
2014?

12. In furtherance of the Board's investigation, the Board issued a subpoena duces
tecum for the Respondent's medical record from Physician A. A review of the
Respondent's medical record revealed that Physician A documented that on December
18, 2013, he gave the Respondent a prescription for schedule IV CDS, as well as other
medications related to her surgery.

13. On or about March 4, 2016, a member of the Board's staff interviewed Witness A,
the human resources director for Practice A. Witness A provided the name of the
medical assistant who was working with the Respondent on August 7, 2014. The
medical assistant denied that the Respondent or anyone else asked her to destroy the
schedule IV CDS prescription. The medical assistant found the schedule IV CDS
prescription on August 8, 2014 and brought it to her manager's attention.

14. Witness A further stated that the Respondent could have asked any of the
providers at Practice A to examine her and prescribe the necessary medications.

15. The Board also issued a subpoena duces tecum to Practice B, where the
Respondent received primary care services, for her medical record and a list of any and
all medications prescribed to the Respondent.

16. A review of Patient A's medical record from Practice B did not reveal any note or
addendum documenting the Respondent's allegedly erroneous prescription for the

schedule IV CDS on August 7, 2014.

? Based on pharmacy records, it appears that Physician A prescribed the schedule IV CDS with one refill,
which the Respondent used on March 30, 2014.
17. A review of the Respondent's prescriptions from three different pharmacies
revealed that from approximately August 2011 until August 7, 2014, the Respondent
regularly self-prescribed medications.

18. | According to the Respondent, when she ran out of refills for chronic medications,
if she was unable to reach the original prescribing physician, she called in new
prescriptions for those medications. When the Respondent called in new prescriptions
for her chronic medications, the Respondent's name, rather than the original
prescriber's name, appeared as the prescriber.

19. A review of the Respondent's prescriptions revealed that the Respondent self-
prescribed myriad medications on a monthly basis. For each drug, the Respondent was
listed as the prescriber.

20. The Respondent self-prescribed a medication (the “Medication”)® on August 3,
2011 (with three refills), June 19, 2012 (with four refills), June 7, 2013 (with three refills),
March 10, 2014 and on August 7, 2014. All of the prescriptions were for 60 tablets,
except for the August 7, 2014 prescription which was for 90 tablets. In total, the
Respondent's pharmacy records revealed 15 prescriptions of the Medication in a three-
year period.

21. During the Respondent's interview with Board staff, the Respondent stated that
she gets the Medication "twice a year."

22. The Respondent stated that she changed the prescription of the Medication from

60 to 90 tablets, but did not do so under the direction of a physician. The Respondent

° At the time, the Medication was unscheduled, but was a known drug of abuse. The Drug Enforcement
Administration classified the Medication as a schedule IV CDS, effective August 18, 2014.

5
further stated that she did not make a note in her medication record documenting the
change in her prescription.

23. The Respondent stated that her delegating physician, Physician B, was aware of
that she filled her own prescriptions when she ran out of re-fills.

24. On or about June 20, 2016, a member of the Board's staff spoke to Physician B
regarding the Respondent's termination. Physician B stated that he was not aware that
the Respondent was self-prescribing until she was terminated from Practice A.
Physician B further stated that self-prescribing (even non-CDS medications) is strictly
prohibited at Practice A and that the Respondent could have asked another provider to
renew her medication.

25. Physician B stated that the Respondent did not have his permission to self-
prescribe medications.

26. Physician B further stated that he had previously treated the Respondent for
urgent care issues and prescribed medications to her.

Delegation Agreement Allegations

27. In furtherance of the Board's investigation, the Board issued a subpoena duces
tecum for the Respondent's personnel file at Practice A, which did not contain a copy of
the Respondent's Delegation Agreement.

28. The Respondent stated that Physician C was her delegating physician at the time

of her hire, until he retired in July 2012.4 Physician B then became her delegating

* On or about March 2, 2016, the Board issued an advisory letter to Physician B for failing to terminate the
Delegation Agreement with the Respondent.
physician. However, the Respondent did not submit a new Delegation Agreement to the
Board listing Physician B as her new delegating physician.®
29. The Respondent practiced medicine without an approved Delegation Agreement
from July 2012 until August 8, 2014.
30. The Respondent's conduct, as set forth above, constitutes a violation of H.O. §§
15-314(a)(3)(ii) and (42).
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated. H.O. §§ 15-314(a)(3)(ii) (Unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine) and (42) (Performing delegated medical acts without the
supervision of a physician). Panel B dismisses the charge under H.O. § 15-314(a)(2)
(Fraudulently or deceptively uses a license).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, on the
affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent's license is SUSPENDED for a period of
THIRTY (30) DAYS; and it is further

ORDERED that Panel B will administratively terminate the suspension at the end
of the 30 day suspension period. The administrative termination of suspension will be
issued through an order of the Board or Board panel; and it is further

ORDERED that upon the termination of the 30 day suspension, the Respondent
will be placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of TWO (2) YEARS.® During the

5 On or about March 2, 2016, the Board issued an advisory letter to Physician C for serving as the
Respondent's supervising physician without a Board-approved Delegation Agreement.

7
probationary period, the Respondent shall comply with all of the following probationary
terms and conditions:

1. Within six (6) months, the Respondent shall successfully complete a
Board disciplinary panel-approved course in ethics, with emphasis on self-prescribing;

2. The Board disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the
Internet. The course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal. The Respondent must provide documentation to the
Board that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

3. The Respondent shall provide a copy of this Consent Order to her
delegating physician within five (5) business days of commencing any employment. The
Respondent shall ensure that her delegating physician send confirmation of his/her
receipt of the Consent Order to the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Board or Panel B determines, after notice and an
opportunity for a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings if there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact or a show
cause hearing before the Board or Panel B if there is no genuine dispute as to a
material fact, that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of
probation or this Consent Order, the Board or Panel B may reprimand the Respondent,
place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend
or revoke the Respondent's license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or
Panel B may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil

monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

 

° If the Respondent's license expires while the Respondent is on probation, the probationary period and
any probationary conditions will be tolled.
ORDERED that, after a minimum period of two (2) years, the Respondent may
submit a written petition to Panel B requesting termination of probation. After
consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of the
Board or Panel B. The Respondent may be required to appear before the Board or
Panel B to discuss her petition for termination. The Board or Panel B will grant the
petition to terminate the probation if the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied
with all of the probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending complaints
related to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq.

Of ZY /Z017

Date

 
CONSENT

1, Vickey K. Manning, PA-C, acknowledge that | am represented by counsel and
have consulted with counsel before entering into this Consent Order. By this Consent
and for the sole purpose of resolving the issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept
to be bound by the foregoing Consent Order and its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority
and jurisdiction of a disciplinary panel of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to
issue and enforce this Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any
adverse ruling of a disciplinary panel of the Board that | might have filed after any such
hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the

language, meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

ufieliy Chewy KI br pe

Date Vickey KY Manning; PA-C.
Read and approved by:

Whitney Wilder, Esq.
Attorney for Ms. Manning

10
