 

Virginia M. Vesay, P.A.-C.

   

Junef , 2016

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice as a Physician Assistant
License Number: C02940
MBP Case Number: 2016-0715B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to
practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland, License Number C02940, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland as it is defined
in the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Occ.”) §§ 15-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that
1 am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”)
acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B.

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation based on the criminal charges that
are pending against me in the State of Pennsylvania. The charges issued in the Court of
Common Pleas of Schuylkill County are related to allegations that I fraudulently wrote and
passed prescriptions for controlled dangerous substances and that I wrote prescriptions for
controlled dangerous substances using a doctor’s name without his permission. I have decided to
permanently surrender my license to practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland in
lieu of further investigation and disciplinary action related to the Pennsylvania criminal charges.
I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be
treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 15-
314(a)(3)Gi) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine) and (27) (sells, prescribes,
gives away, or administers drugs for illegal or illegitimate medical purposes).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Virginia M. Vesay, P.A.-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

aforementioned allegations in order to resolve this matter because I no longer wish to practice as
a physician assistant in Maryland.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license
as if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form
in any other state or jurisdiction, that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board or Panel B to the same extent as a Final Order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this
Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender,I will present to the
Board my original Maryland medical license number C02940, and ny, amost recent wallet-sized

renewal card. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of Veer, recor
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. Cae af!

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this sense thee Letter of Surrendéx, my
license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice as a physician assistant in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any application
for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date and that I waive any hearing rights
regarding any such application.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B,
including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I voluntarily choose to surrender my
Maryland license to practice as a physician assistant pursuant to the terms and conditions set out
herein. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly "Oe

Ut M. me P.A-C.

Cur

ap No
 

Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Virginia M. Vesay, P.A.-C.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF Pansy vans
CITY/COUNTY OF Se hug | ill

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this S day of June, 2016 before me, a Notary Public
of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Virginia M. Vesay, P.A.-C., and declared and
affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent Letter of Surrender was
her voluntary act and deed.

         
 
 
 

COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
NOTARIAL SEAL
Jason Muraczewski, Notary Public
Mahanoy Township, Schuyikill County
My Commission Expires February 05, 2017

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Notary Public

My commission expires: ol OS - OI?

 
  
 

  

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland Board of Physicians, on this
day of June, 2016, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Virginia M. Vesay, P.A.-C’s PERMANENT
SURRENDER of her license to practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland.

 
