IN THE MATTER OF : * BEFORE THE

CHIOMA ALEXANDER, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: C03890 * Case Number: 2217-0092B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

On February 22, 2017, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) received a’
“Termination of Employment (Delegation Agreement) Report” from a hospital notifying the
Board that it terminated the employment of Chioma Alexander, PA-C, for unsatisfactory job
performance. The Board opened an investigation that revealed that Ms. Alexander did not have
a valid delegation agreement between January 1, 2015 and February 22, 2017. On April 23,
2018, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Board charged Ms, Alexander under the Maryland
Medical Practice Act with unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of §
15-314(a)(3)Gi) of the Health Occupations Article, and performing delegated medical acts
without the supervision of a physician in violation of § 15-314(a)(42) of the Health Occupations
Article.

On January 4, 2019, pursuant to Health Oce. § 15-315, an evidentiary hearing was held at
the Office of Administrative Hearings. Ms, Alexander appeared and testified on her own bebalf.
On March 18, 2019, the Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) issued a proposed decision,

_ concluding that Ms. Alexander was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
and performed delegated medical acts without the supervision of a physician, see Health Oce. §
15-314(a)(3)Gi) and (42). The ALJ proposed that Ms, Alexander's license be suspended for six-
months and that a civil fine of $5,000 be imposed by a disciplinary panel.

Neither Ms. Alexander nor the State filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision.
FINDINGS OF FACT
Board Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) adopts the ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact
(numbered 1-33, ALJ’s Proposed Decision at pages 4-9) and Discussion (ALJ’s Proposed
Decision at pages 10-20), which are incorporated by reference into this Final Decision and Order
as if set forth in full." The ALJ’s proposed decision is attached as Exhibit 1. The factual
findings were proven by the preponderance of evidence.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Panel A concludes that the Ms. Alexander is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ, § 15-314(a)(3)(ii), and performed delegated
medical acts without the supervision of a physician, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(42).
SANCTION
The ALJ recommended that Ms. Alexander’s license be suspended for 6 months and that
she be fined $5,000. Panel A finds that the proposed sanction is warranted and adopts it.
. ORDER
It is, by an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby
ORDERED that Chioma Alexander, PA-C’s license to practice as a physician assistant
in Maryland is SUSPENDED for a minimum period of 6 MONTHS. 2 During the suspension,
Ms. Alexander shall not:

- (a) practice medicine;

' The Proposed Order states that the Board issued charges and scheduled a Disciplinary
Committee for Case Resolution Conference. Pursuant to its authority under §10-216(b) of the
State Gov’t Article, Panel A modifies the Proposed Order to clarify that these actions were taken
by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board.

? Ms. Alexander’s physician assistant license expired on June 30, 2017. The suspension period
is, therefore, tolled until Ms. Alexander’s license is administratively reinstated. COMAR
10.32.02.05C(3).
10.

11.

12,

13.

notified the Respondent by email and regular mail that it had accepted each delegation
agreement.

On February 6, 2014, Hospital A extended an offer of employment to the Respondent to
serve as a physician assistant.

In February 2014, the Respondent and Physician A signed a delegation agreement to serve as
the Respondent’s supervising physician. Hospital A wrote a check to the Board for $200.00
for the Board’s delegation agreement application fee. On February 27, 2014, Physician A
sent a note to Hospital A’s Director of Human Resources stating the Respondent had asked
him to forward the delegation agreement to her after he completed his sections. Physician A
advised the Director of Human Resources the delegation agreement needed to be filed with
the Board along with the fee.> On March 5, 2014, Hospital A approved the issuance of a
check for the delegation agreement fee; the approval form contains a notation for an
unspecified person to see the Director of Personnel to pick up the check “that is for a
delegation agreement for a PA [Respondent].” On April 4, 2014, the Board notified the
Respondent by email that it had received the delegation agreement and preliminarily —
approved Physician A to setve as her supervising physician and she should consider the
delegation approved unless she heard otherwise within 90-120 days.

On April 28, 2014, the Respondent started work at Hospital A as a physician assistant.
Physician D has served as Hospital A’s medical director since June 2016. The Respondent
was already working at Hospital A when Physician D started in that position. Physician D

has never supervised a physician assistant under the hospital’s hierarchy and has never

5 Physician A used only a first name in his salutation. State Ex. 5, p. 85. The State’s evidence includes a note about
the delegation application fee that refers to the person by her first name and both initials of her hyphenated jast
name. d, p. 84. The only person of record who fits that first name and initials is the Director of Human Resources,
whose complete name and title are found at State Exhibit 5 in an email from the director on April 14, 2014, Id. p.

48.

6
14,

15,

16.

17,

18,

served as the Respondent’s supervising physician under a delegation agreement. As medical
director, Physician D works closely with Lay Person A.

Lay Person A oversees the three physician/primary care outpatient group practices associated
with the hospital and is responsible for hiring and firing physician assistants, among other
practitioners. The practices are located in three cities in Maryland, The Respondent initially
worked at one of the practices and then moved to another.

Physician A notified Hospital A he was leaving his employment there effective December
31,2014, Physician A’s departure conclusively ended his relationship with the Respondent
as her supervising physician under the delegation agreement filed with the Board, thus
bringing an end to their delegation agreement.

Sometime after December 2, 2014, the Respondent went to Nigeria for about four weeks.
The Respondent knew when she left for Nigeria that when she returned, Physician A would.
no longer serve as her supervising physician.

On December 2, 2014, the Respondent signed a delegation application to have Physician C
serve as her supervising physician, Physician C provides patient care and supervises
physician assistants under Hospital A’s hierarchy. On December 5, 2014, Physician C signed
and dated the delegation agreement. Physician C only expected to serve as the Respondent’s
supervising physician from January or February 2015 to June 2015.

The Respondent gave the application to an unspecified petson at Hospital A on the belief that
the hospital would send it to the Board with the required fee, but it did not do so. Neither the
Respondent nor anyone or her behalf filed the delegation agreement and associated fee with
the Board. The absence of any acceptance email or letter from the Board would have alerted
the Respondent to the strong possibility the delegation agreement had not been filed.

7
19,

20.

2

—

22,

23,

24,

25,

26.

In March or April 2015, Physician B joined Practice A (where the Respondent was then
working). The Respondent did not complete and sign a delegation agreement for Physician
B to serve as her supervising physician.

The Respondent never completed another delegation agreement for anyone to serve as her

supervising physician at Hospital A.

. Hospital A notified the Respondent that it was terminating her employment effective

February 20, 2017 for:
unsatisfactory job performance or otherwise not performing to standards,
engaging in activity detrimental to the operations of the hospital, deliberate
inattention to patient care, or engaging in any conduct detrimental to patient care,
misrepresenting assessment and diagnosis findings in medical record,
State Ex. 1 memorandum at 1, termination report at 2.
Physician D was involved in the decision to terminate the Respondent’s employment.
Hospital A sent a required “Termination of Employment (Delegation Agreement) Report” to
the Board, which it received on February 23, 2017.° Lay Person A completed the report, in
which he noted Physician D was the Respondent’s supervisor, based solely on the fact
Physician D was the medical director.
Physician D did not have any reason to know, in his capacity as medical director, whether the
Respondent had a delegation agreement for anyone in particular to serve as her supervising
physician.
Lay Person A completed the report without Physician D’s knowledge.
The Board initiated an investigation of the termination. It requested records from Hospital A,

which, among others, submitted the December 2014 delegation agreement for Physician C to

serve as the supervising physician.

* A termination report is required when the termination is related to a quality of care issue. Health Occ, § 15-103,

8
27.

28.

29,

30.

31,

Lay Person A learned during the Board’s investigation of the termination the Respondent did
not have a delegation agreement and Physician D was not her supervising physician under a
delegation agreement,

On May 3, 2017, the Board sent the Respondent a letter by regular mail to her address of
record in Westgrove, Pennsylvania, about its investigation. The Respondent no longer lived
there and the USPS returned the mail as undeliverable and unable to forward. The
Respondent had not updated her address with the Board.

On May 12, 2017, the Board emailed the letter to the Respondent, with notice that the
original correspondence had been returned due to an insufficient address. Among other
claims, the Board asserted that it did not have an approved delegation agreement on file.

The Respondent replied to the Board’s letter by email dated May 18, 2017. She addressed
claims of inadequate patient care; she did not claim she had filed the necessary delegation
agreements, The Respondent did not update her mailing address with the Board,

On June 22, 2017, the Board sent the Respondent a letter by regular mail to her address of
record in Westgrove, Pennsylvania, stating it had determined further investigation was
warranted. The USPS returned the mail as undeliverable and unable to forward, On July 10,

2017, the Board emailed the letter to the Respondent, with notice that the original

correspondence had been returned.

32,

33,

Sometime after June 22, 2017, the Respondent updated ber mailing address with the Board,
Neither the Respondent nor anyone on her behalf submitted an application for a delegation
agreement to the Board from January 1, 2015 through her termination from Hospital A in

February 2017,
DISCUSSION —

Legal Framework

Bven though the Board’s investigation of the Respondent was precipitated by Hospital
. A’s termination of her employment for patient care issues, this case is not about whether the
Respondent performed het duties within the standard of care for a physician assistant. In fact,
the Board declined to charge the Respondent with a standard of care violation. This case is
strictly about whether the Respondent worked without a delegation agreement on file with the
Board and, if so, whether: (1) that failure constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine in violation of the Health Occupations Article section 15-315(a)G Mii); and (2) the
Respondent is guilty of performing delegated medical acts without the supervision of a physician
in violation of Health Occupations Article section 15-315(a)(42). The State argues the
Respondent worked as a physician assistant without a delegation agreement, and therefore had
no supervising physician, from January 1, 2015 (after Physician A left Hospital A) until February
2017 (when the Respondent left her employment with Hospital A).

If the State proves the Board’s charges, the Respondent is subject to disciplinary action,
up to and including a reprimand, suspension or revocation of her physician assistant cerlification,
and a civil penalty. Jd. § 15-314(a). Moreover, a person who violates section. 15-401 “[s]hall lose
licensure as a physician assistant under this title.” Jd, §-15-403(a)(2), Section 15-401 (b) states,
“Except as otherwise provided in this title, a person may not perform, attempt to perform, or
offer to perform any delegated medical act beyond the scope of the license and which is

consistent with a delegation agreement filed with the Board.”

7T see no applicable exceptions, and the Respondent does not assert any.

10
“{AJn individual shall be licensed by the Board before the individual may practice as
a physician assistant,”* Id § 15-301(d)(1). “A physician assistant is the agent of the primary
or alternate supervising physician in the performance of all practice-related activities,
including the oral, written, or electronic ordering of diagnostic, therapeutic, and other
medical services.” Id, § 15-301(e).

A physician assistant is “an individual who is licensed to practice medicine with
physician supervision.” COMAR 10.32.03.028(22). “{A] physician may not supervise a
physician assistant in the performance of delegated medical acts without filing a completed
delegation agreement with the Board,” except in instances not relevant here.” Md, Code Ann.,

Health Oce. § 15-301(e)(2).

Supervision means:

(a) ... the responsibility of the physician to exercise on-site supervision or provide
immediately available direction for physician assistants performing delegated medical acts.

(b) "Supervision" includes: ,

(i) Oversight of the physician assistant and acceptance of direct responsibility for the
patient services and care rendered by the physician assistant;

(ii) Continuous availability to the physician assistant either in person, through written
instructions, or by electronic means; and

(iii) Designation of one or more alternate supervising physicians.

COMAR 10.32.03,02B(30).

* The code cites exceptions which are not relevant to the Respondent’s case.
> A physician assistant may provide emergency services that have not been specifically delegated. Md, Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 15-301(d)(3).

1
Moreover,

(a) A physician may delegate medical acts to a physician assistant only after:
(1) A delegation agreement has been executed and filed with the Board;
and .
(2) Any advanced duties have been authorized as required under
subsection (c) of this section.

Health Occ. § 15-302(a); see also COMAR 10.32.03.05A. “Nothing in... title [15] may be
construed to authorize a physician assistant to practice independent of a primary or alternate
supervising physician.” Jd. § 15-301(a). Moreover,

(b) A license issued to a physician assistant shall limit the physician assistant’s
scope of practice to medical acts:
(1) Delegated by the primary or alternate supervising physician;
(2) Appropriate to the education, training, and experience of the physician
assistant;
(3) Customary to the practice of the primary or alternate supervising
‘physician; and
‘(4) Consistent with the delegation agreement filed with the Board,

"Td. § 15-301 (b).
A propertly executed delegation agreement on file with the Board shall include the
following information:

(1) A description of the qualifications of the primary supervising physician and.
. physician assistant;

(2) A description of the settings in which the physician assistant will practice;

(3) A description of the continuous physician supervision mechanisms that are

reasonable and appropriate to the practice setting; /

(4) A description of the delegated medical acts that are within the primary or

alternate supervising physician's scope of practice and require specialized

education or training that is consistent with accepted medical practice;

(5) An attestation that all medical acts to be ‘delegated to the physician assistant

are within the scope of practice of the primary or alternate supervising physician

and appropriate to the physician assistants education, training, and level of

competence; .

(6) An attestation of continuous supervision of the physician assistant by the

primary supervising physician through the mechanisms described in the

delegation agreement;

(7) An attestation by the primary supervising physician of the physician’s

acceptance of responsibility for any care given by the physician assistant;

12
(8) A description prepared by the primary supervising physician of the process by
which the physician assistant's practice is reviewed appropriate to the practice
setting and consistent with current standards of acceptable medical practice;
(9) An attestation by the primary supervising physician that the physician will
respond in a timely manner when contacted by the physician assistant;
(10) The following statement: “The primary supervising physician and the
physician assistant attest that:
(i) They will establish a plan for the types of cases that require a physician
plan of care or require that the patient initially or periodically be seen by
the supervising physician; and
(ii) The patient will be provided access to the supervising physician on
request”; and
(11) Any other information deemed necessary by the Board to carry out the
provisions of this subtitle. .

Health Occ. § 15-302(a); see also COMAR 10,32,03.05B, C.

“A physician assistant may practice in accordance with a delegation agreement filed with
_ the Board.” Health Occ. § 15-302 (m). The Board may disapprove the delegation agreement if
there are “[I]icensure or compliance issues with the primary supervising physician or the
physician assistant” or failure of the agreement to contain the required information, COMAR
10,32,03.06A(2). “The Board shall notify the primary supervising physician and the physician
assistant of the Board’s receipt of the delegation agreement.” COMAR 10.32.03.06B(2). “To
the extent practicable, the Board shall approve a delegation agreement or take other action with
respect to a delegation agreement within 90 days after receiving a completed delegation.
agreement including any information from the physician assistant and. primary supervising
physician,” COMAR 10.32.03.06G. “Ifa delegation agreement does not include advanced
duties or the advanced duties have been approved under § 15-3 02(c)(1) of this subtitle, a
physician assistant may assume the duties under a delegation agreement on the date of receipt by
the Board of the delegation agreement.”!° Health Oce,, § 15-302,1(a)m(2014).

'° The State does not allege that the Respondent was delegated advanced duties.
13
For the reasons that follow, I find the State has proved the Board’s charges and the
Respondent is subject to a disciplinary suspension and civil penalty.
Merits of the Charges

The evidence is conclusive the Respondent did not have a delegation agreement on file
starting January 1, 2015, after Physician A terminated their relationship. The Respondent
concedes this fact, although she argues she thought Hospital A filed a delegation agreement for
Physician C to take over for Physician A, and any other necessary delegation agreements. In
support, she testified an unspecified person at Hospital A told her when she was hired the
hospital would take care of any credentialing of her license; the Respondent signed an
unspecified application and gave it to that person; and the person said the hospital would file it.

To some extent, the Respondent and others at Hospital A had earnest confusion between
renewing a Board license and a delegation agreement, between a supervising physician under a
delegation agreement and a supervisor under the hospital’s hierarchy; and the degree to which
Hospital A would ensure a medical provider has all the necessary credentials. This confusion led
Lay Person A to incorrectly identify Physician D as the Respondent’s supervisor in the
“Termination of Employment (Delegation Agreement) Report,” dated April 11, 2017. Lay Person
A assumed Physician D was the Respondent’s supervisor because Physician D oversees the
physician, or primary care, group practices. The Respondent, however, knew or should have
known that someone who is a supervisor within the hospital’s organizational structure was not
necessarily her supervising physician under a delegation agreement. In fact, the Board had
notified her when she was first licensed she would need a delegation agreement with her

supervising physician; she knew she had not filed one after Physician C stopped supervising her;

14
and she knew the Board had not accepted her delegation agreement for Physician C to supervise
her because she never received notice from the Board it had accepted theit delegation agreement.

In fairness to the Respondent, however, there is some evidence that raises the possibility
Hospital A would file a delegation agreement for her. Physician A sent a note to the hospital’s
Director of Human Resources stating the Respondent told him to forward the delegation
agreement when he completed his sections, Obviously, Physician A meant the delegation
agreement application, Although he did not say he was enclosing the application, it is obvious
_ he did because otherwise there would be no purpose to his note and he would have had no reason
to tell the Director of Human Resources the delegation agreement needed to be sent to the Board
with the fee, Physician A was cotrect that the delegation needed to be filed with Board, but that
does not mean Hospital A was responsible for taking the action.

Also, the record includes a partially obscured document that, for lack of a better
description, I will call a check authorization order. State Ex. 5, p. 84. I say partially obscured:
because a post-it note or other piece of paper was on top of the document when it was
photocopied and I cannot see what is underneath, J conclude the check authorization order came
_ from Hospital A because the first two letters in its name are visible, Lalso see the words “Make
Check Payable To:” followed by Maryland, although the rest of the title is obscured, I see a
partial P.O. Box address in Baltimore that may or may not belong to the Board. At the bottom
of the invoice, in the “Reason/Comments” section, is a notation that an unspecified person
. should contact the Director of Human Resources to pick up the check which was written for the
Respondent’s benefit,

Together these two pieces of evidence raise a question about whether Hospital A was
going to file the delegation agreement for the Respondent, Even-if that were the case, the

i)
(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold herself out to the
public as a current provider of medical services;
(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Ms. Alexander’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the-state;
(e) dispense medications; or
(f) perform any other act that requires an active physician assistant’s license; and
it is further
ORDERED that within 6 MONTHS, Ms. Alexander shall pay a’ civil fine of $5,000.00.
The Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland
Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O, Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will
not terminate Ms. Alexander’s suspension if she fails to pay the fine to the Board; and it is
further
ORDERED that, after thé minimum period of suspension imposed by this Final Decision
and Order has passed and ‘Ms. Alexander has paid the civil fine, she may submit a written
petition to the Board for the termination of suspension. After a determination that Ms.
Alexander has complied with the terms of the Final Decision and Order, a disciplinary panel may
administratively terminate Ms. Alexander’s suspension through an order of the disciplinary
panel; it is further
ORDERED that the effective daté of the Final Decision and Order is the date the Final
Decision. and Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director

signs the Final Decision and Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which lias imposed the

terms and conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further
Respondent, as the licensee, is responsible for making sure the delegation agreement was
accepted. Ms, Dicken testified that when the Board approves (or disapproves) an application for
a delegation agreement, it notifies the applicant by email and regular mail with a copy to the
supervising physician. The Respondent testified she knew to expect notice from the Board that it
had accepted an agreement. Thus, irrespective of who was going to file the delegation
agreement, the Respondent knew the Board had not accepted one for Physician C,

The Respondent testified she knew she did not receive anything from the Board about a
delegation agreement with Physician C and “time went by so fast” that she forgot about it. The
Respondent is not permitted to practice without a delegation agreement. She is not a doctor, and
having a supervising physician is required, Forgetting to ensure she has an acceptable delegation .
agreement is careless and unprofessional.

The Respondent somehow excuses not having a delegation agreement in place with
Physician C on the basis she did not initially realize Physician A was gone when she returned from
Nigeria. If Physician A left suddenly and without her prior knowledge, I would apply the law
governing sudden departure of a supervising physician. In that event, “a designated alternate
supervising physician may assume the role of the primary supervising physician by submitting a new
delegation agreement to the Board within 15 days.” Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-302(m).
Thus, even if Physician A left suddenly while the Respondent was in Nigeria, she was obligated to
submit a new delegation to the Board within the prescribed period on her return, She never did that.

In any evident, I reject the Respondent’s claim that she was caught off guard by
Physician A’s departure. The Respondent testified when she returned from Nigeria she labored
under the belief Physician A was merely on vacation and thus she did not know Physician A
would no longer serve as her supervising physician. The Respondent testified she learned within

16
a few days of returning from Nigeria that Physician A was permanently gone, The Respondent

- signed the delegation agreement application for Physician C to serve as-her new supervising
physician on December 2, 2014, before she left for Ni geria. If she did not know until a few days
after she returned Physician C would be taking over for the Physician A, she would have had no
reason to complete the application more than amonth eatlier, The Respondent testified she
signed the agreement because Hospital A expected to move her between the three physician
practices, That explanation makes no sense because the Board would not need to know she was
moving from one office to another. The Respondent signed the agreement to have Physician C
take over for Physician A. Thus, I find the Respondent knew, before she left for Nigeria, that
Physician A was leaving and she knew she needed a delegation agreement for Physician C.

The Respondent testified that at some unspecified time after she returned from Nigeria,
she asked the office manager at the physician group practice where she was assigned who her
supervisor. was and she did not get an “exact answer.” This supervisor would have been
someone in the hospital’s organizational structure, not a supervising physician under a delegation
agreement. By her own admission, the Respondent was familiar with the approval process for
delegation agreements, so she should have known the Board would have advised her whether it
had approved a supervising physician, not the office manager, This is true even if the hospital’s
credentialing office had submitted her application for a delegation agreement.

Also, Physician C testified she only ever expected to serve as the Respondent’s
supervising physician from January or February 2015 to June 2015. The Respondent testified
she knew this was the case, The Respondent did not present any evidence that she signed a new
delegation agreement for someone to replace Physician C. Thus, even if the Respondent had a
reasonable basis for believing the delegation agreement with Physician C had been filed with the

17
Board, she had no reasonable basis for believing anyone had filed one to cover the period from
July 2015 through her termination in 2017. .

The Respondent testified she assumed Physician B would supervise her when he joined
Practice A (where the Respondent was working) in March or April 2015. Physician B may have
been her supervisor under the hospital’s organizational structure, but the Respondent had no
reason to believe he was her supervising physician under a delegation agreement since she had
never completed and signed, and had Physician B complete his portion and sign, an application
for Physician B to serve in that capacity,

The Respondent argues she acted in accordance with “hospital regulation” at the time.
The Respondent did not cite any particular regulation, or even policy, but that is hardly the point.
The Respondent was obligated to act in accordance with the Maryland statute and the Board’s
regulations pertaining to her practice as physician assistant.

The Respondent testified when Hospital A hired her “it was brought to my attention that
any credentialing in lieu of license is done by the hospital,” Tr. 67. Tam unclear what she
means by “credentialing in lieu of” her license. The Respondent testified she understands she
needs two documents to work as a physician assistant: a Board-issued license and a delegation
agreement. One is not in lieu of the other. She was responsible for ensuring she had filed all
necessary documents to work as a physician assistant.

Because the Respondent worked as a physician assistant for two years without a
delegation agreement, I find the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine and she performed delegated medical acts without the supervision of a physician, both

as charged by the Board.

18
Sanction and Civil Penalty

The next question is whether the Respondent should suffer the loss of her physician assistant ,
license and a civil penalty. The State recommends a six-month suspension following the
Respondent's successful reinstatement of her physician assistant license in Maryland.

The Respondent has no disciplinary history. Nevertheless, two factors cause me to |
accept the State’s recommendation, First, the Respondent’s actions are serious. She told the
Board during its investigation she was essentially running the physician practice where she was
assigned by herself for four months in early 2015, although Physician C was available to her by
phone and would come to the office to see patients one day per week and Physician D would
visit the office on different occasions to commend her on her job performance and to see
patients. The Respondent also wrote she worked without knowledge of who her supervising
physician was. It is impossible to know whether she meant supervising physician under a
delegation agreement or under the hospital’s hierarchy. Either explanation is especially
troublesome.

Second, although the Respondent testified she understands it is her responsibility to
ensute a delegation agreement is on file, she made no effort to fulfill that responsibility, The
Respondent argues none of this would have happened had Hospital A filed the delegation
agreement for Physician C to serve as her supervising physician, The Respondent does not seem to
understand that she was also responsible for having a delegation agreement on file for someone to
succeed Physician A.

Third, the Respondent said this is 4 “learning experience” for her. The Respondent does not
‘seem to appreciate the seriousness of her conduct, The Respondent cannot jeopardize patient care
during a learning period.

19
 

The final question is whether the Board may impose a civil penalty. “In addition to the
penalties under subsection (a) of this section, a person who vidlates § 15-401 of this subtitle may
be subject to a civil penalty assessed by the Board in an amount not exceeding $5,000. Health
Oce. § 15-403(b)(1). The State recommends a $5,000.00 penalty on the basis the Respondent’s
actions were serious and she acted for financial gain. .

. The only financial gain is the Respondent’s salary and performance bonus. If that
constitutes financial gain, any licensee who commits any violation is arguably acting for financial
gain. I do not find she acted for financial gain.

On the other hand, the Respondent’s actions were serious and careless, She stated without
appreciation for its meaning she ran a physician practice for months on her own, not only without a
delegation agreement but also without adequate supervision with Hospital A’s hierarchy. The
Respondent knew or should have known she did not have a delegation agreement Physician A and
absolutely knew she had not filed delegation agreements to replace Physician C and, thus, the
Respondent’s decision to practice without a supervising physician was willful. I therefore accept
the State’s recommended civil penalty.

With regard to payment of the penalty, “[a]n individual shall pay to the Board any fine
imposed under this regulation within 15 calendar days of the date of the order, unless the order
specifies otherwise.” COMAR 10.32.03.17G, [recommend the Board require the Respondent to

pay the penalty before the end of the suspension ends.

20°
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I conclude the Respondent is subject to suspension of her license to practice as a physician
. assistant: .
1. The Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of section 15-3 14(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article; and
2, The Respondent performed delegated medical acts without the supervision of a
physician, in violation of section 15-314(a)(42) of the Health Occupations Article,
and
I further conclude the Respondent is subject to a civil penalty, pursuant to section 15-403(b)(1)
of the Health Occupations Article, .
| PROPOSED DISPOSITION
I PROPOSE that the charges filed by the Board on April 23, 2018 against the Respondent
shall be UPHELD; and I further
PROPOSE that the Respondent serve a six-month suspension upon her successful.
application to the Board for reinstatement as a physician assistant; and I further

PROPOSE that the Respondent shall pay a civil penalty of $5,000.00.

March 18, 2019 Levee enmeTth far

Date Report Mailed . . Laurie Bennett
Administrative Law Judge

 

LB/iedp
#177035

21,
ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a public document, See Health Occ. §§

1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

“o7fe4 boi4 Signature on File
Pes Tae acbecictiebs

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-315(b), Ms. Alexander has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order, Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within 30 days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md, Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Ms. Alexander files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
David S. Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
Exhibit 1
MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF * BEFORE LAURIE BENNETT,

PHYSICIANS * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
v. * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE

CHIOMA ALEXANDER, PA-C, *~ OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
aka CHIOMA ALEXANDER NJOKU, * OAH No.: MDH-MBP2-74-18-27657
RESPONDENT a:

LICENSE No.: C03890 *

* * * kk ek * * * x x *

PROPOSED DECISION

"STATEMENT OF THE CASE
, ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
FINDINGS OF FACT
DISCUSSION
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
On April 23, 2018, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (Board) issued charges against
Chioma Alexander (Respondent) for alleged violations of the Maryland Physician Assistants Act.
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ,! §§ 15-101 through 15-317 (2014 & Supp. 2018). The Board
scheduled a disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution Conference on or about June 27, 2018.
The charges did not resolve, and the Board forwarded thé matter to the Office of Administrative
Hearings (OAH) for further proceedings.
By notice dated September 6, 2018, the OAH set a scheduling conference for September
25, 2018. The United States Postal Service (USPS) returned the Respondent’s notice. The OAH

postponed the scheduling conference on receipt of a new address for the Respondent from Dawn

' Unless noted, all statutory references are to the Health Occupations Article.
Rubin, Assistant Attorney General and Administrative Prosecutor for the State of Maryland. I
. held a scheduling conference on October 25, 2018, at which Ms. Rubin appeared on behalf of the
State, but the Respondent failed to appear; I proceeded in her absence.

[held a prehearing conference on November 29, 2018. The Respondent represented
herself and Ms. Rubin again represented the State,

I held a hearing on January 4, 2019, at the OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Health Occ.
§ 14-405(a) (Supp. 2018); COMAR 10.32.02.04. The Respondent represented herself. Ms.
Rubin represented the State. .

Procedure in this case is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the OAH. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2014 & Supp.
2018); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.

| IssUES

1, Is the Respondent guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in

violation of section 15-3 14(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article?

2. Is the Respondent guilty of performing delegated medical acts without the

supervision of a physician in violation of section 15-315(a)(42) of the Health

Occupations Article?

3. If so, what sanctions ate appropriate, if any?
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
Exhibits:
L admitted the following exhibits that the State offered:

Charging document, 04/23/2018
Initial application for certification, 10/06/2008
Renewal application, 05/22/2015
Compliance referral with attached Termination. of Employment (Delegation
Agreement) Report, 04/11/2017
5. Subpoena directed to Hospital A with attached personnel documents received by
the Board (Bates stamped | through 212), received by the Board 04/27/2017
6. Performance Improvement Feedback Plan far the Respondent from Hospital A,
09/21/2016
7, Notification of investigation from Board staff to Respondent, 05/03/2017
8. Email to Respondent from Board staff, 05/12/2017
.9, Email response from Respondent to Board staff, 05/18/2017
10, Letter to Respondent from Board staff with attachment, 06/22/2017
11. Email to Respondent from Board staff with attachment, 07/1 0/201 7
12. Letter to Respondent with attachments, 07/25/2017 -
13, Information Form from Respondent, 08/17/2017
14, Delegation Agreement, signed by Physician C and Respondent, signed by.
Respondent on 12/02/2014 and Physician C on 12/05/2014 and. 01/06/2015
15. Interview of Lay Person A, 07/12/2017 ~
16. Interview of Respondent, 08/17/2017
17. Interview of Physician E, 10/04/2017
18. Interview of Physician D, 11/07/2017
19. Interview of Physician C, 12/19/2017
20. Board’s Report of Investigation, 03/02/2018

RwnNe

The Respondent did not offer any exhibits.

Witnesses:

The State offered the following witnesses:”

« Physician C, M.D., family medicine practitioner at Hospital A
¢ Molly Dicken, Compliance Analyst for the Board

_ ? At the State’s request, I have redacted names for confidentiality in this Proposed Decision. The State offered
pseudonyms for all but two people referenced in this Proposed Decision. will title these individuals Lay Person A,
whose title I only partially. include here because his full title is unique and would likely reveal his and others’
identities, and Physician E. -See State Exhibits A and E for their identities and titles,

3
e Lay Person A, Vice President of ***, Hospital A
* Physician D, M.D., Medical Director at Hospital A

The Respondent testified on her own behalf.
FINDINGS OF FACT
I find the following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:

1. The Board first licensed the Respondent as a physician assistant in 2008.

2. On October 6, 2008, the Board notified the Respondent in writing it approved her
certification, or license, as a physician assistant and: .

a. She was not free to ‘practice until she and her supervising physician received
approval of a delegation agreement from the Board.

b, She was responsible for notifying the Board of any address changes.

c. She was responsible for renewing the license every two years.

d. She was responsible for familiarizing herself with governing regulations and
statute. .

3. The Respondent renewed her license every two years, as the Board requires, until she
voluntarily permitted the license to lapse on June 30, 2017.7 The Respondent has not
subsequently applied for a license to practice as a physician assistant in Maryland.

4. To practice as a physician assistant in Maryland, the Respondent must: (1) file with the
Board a delegation agreement, which, among other information, identifies a supervising
physician and the specific duties the supervising physician delegates to her; and (2) submit
the required fee.

3 “Unless a disciplinary panel agrees to accept the surrender of a license of a physician assistant, the physician
assistant may not surrender the license nor may the licensure lapse by operation of law while the physician assistant
is under investigation or while charges are pending.” Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-312(a). The Board’s,
investigation commenced while the Respondent held a valid license and a disciplinary panel did not accept a
voluntary surrender. Thus, the Board has authority to pursue disciplinary charges against the Respondent’even
though she permitted her license to lapse,

4
5. The Board will review and accept or reject the delegation agreement, The Board advises a
physician assistant of its decision by email and regular mail, with a copy to the supervising
physician by regular mail, and by email if the Board has an email address. The Respondent
knew she would receive written notice from the Board about whether it accepted the
delegation agreement, |

6. A delegation agreement does not have an expiration date; an agreement continues until the
relationship ends, such as when the supervising physician elects not to serve in a supervisory
capacity. When a physician assistant wants or needs a new supervising physician, the
physician assistant must file a new delegation agreement with the Board.

7. The Respondent is a licensed physician assistant in Delaware and Pennsylvania.

8. Hospital A’s Medical Staff Office ensures its physician assistants are properly credentialed
(and is thus sometimes referred to as the credentialing office by the Respondent and others).
The Medical Staff Office sends each provider a licensure application and a checklist of
information it needs to appoint or reappoint a provider to the staff, including licensure
verification, insurance verification, peer references, government agency reviews, and a
delegation agreement. A completed appointment or reappointment application is forwarded

to the appropriate department chair for review and then to the Credentials Committee for
further review. Someone from the Medical Staff Office will check the Board’s website to
verify the provider has submitted the delegation agreement to the Board.’

9. Prior to accepting employment at Hospital A, the Respondent worked as a physician assistant
elsewhere. For that prior employment, the Respondent personally filed between three and

five delegation agreements for a specific physician to serve as her supervisor. The Board

__ “The evidence does not show whether Hospital A has a procedure for verifying the filing of a second delegation
agreement after the first has ended, ~

5
