 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

AHMED GBADAMOSI, PA-C, * STATE BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Respondent. * Case Number: 2218-0054A

License No. C04261 *

x * x * * * * * * * & x *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

Ahmed Gbadamosi, PA-C, is a physician assistant licensed by the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (“Board”). Mr. Gbadamosi was first licensed by the Board on June 29, 2010. After
his license expired on June 30, 2013, he subsequently applied for reinstatement in September,
2014, which was granted by the Board on October 28, 2014. He has been continuously licensed
in Maryland since that date, having renewed his license in 2015 and 2017.

In 2010, Mr. Gbadamosi moved to Georgia and remained there until 2015, at which point
he returned to Maryland. On February 18, 2014, while he lived in Georgia, Mr. Gbadamosi
pleaded guilty to and was convicted of criminal trespass in the State Court of Cobb County,
Georgia. He was sentenced to twelve months confinement, was required to serve one day of that
sentence and was placed on probation for the remainder of the twelve-month period, On his
September 2014 reinstatement application, Mr. Gbadamosi answered “NO” to a question asking
whether he had been charged with or convicted of any criminal act.

During Mr, Gbadamosi’s license renewal process in 2017, he was required to submit to a
criminal history background check, pursuant to § 15-307(g) of the Health Occupations Article.’
That background check flagged his 2014 criminal conviction in Georgia, and led to a Board
‘ In 2015, the Maryland General Assembly enacted legislation that required all applicants for initial licensure,

renewal, and reinstatement to obtain a criminal history records check, beginning October 1, 2016. See Senate Bill
449, ch. 34, 2015 Md, Laws 178. .

 
 

investigation of the conviction and his prior applications for license reinstatement and renewal.
In May 2018, based on the Board’s investigation, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board charged Mr.
Gbadamosi with fraudulently or deceptively obtaining or attempting to obtain a license,
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, and willfully making a false representation
when seeking or making application for licensure or any other application related to the practice
of medicine, in violation of the Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(1), (3)Gi), and
(36), respectively.

Mr. Gbadamosi requested and received an evidentiary hearing on December 10, 2018, at
the Office of Administrative Hearings before an Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”). In a
Proposed Decision issued on February 22, 2019, the ALJ recommended that the charges be
upheld and found that Mr. Gbadamosi had made false representations when filling out his 2014
Reinstatement Application, his 2017 Renewal Application and a Maryland Hospital
Credentialing Application in 2015. As a sanction, the ALJ recommended that Mr. Gbadamosi’s
physician assistant license be suspended for one year and that he be fined $25,000.00.

Mr. Gbadamosi filed written exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Decision, and the State
filed a Response to Mr. Gbadamosi’s exceptions. Both parties appeared before Disciplinary
Panel B of the Board for an oral exceptions hearing on April 24, 2019.2 After considering the
entire record in this case, including the evidentiary record made before the ALJ, and the written

exceptions and oral arguments by both parties, Panel B now issues this Final Decision and Order.

 

2 At the exceptions hearing, Mr. Gbadamosi was not present but was represented by his attorney,

2

 
 

making false representations when seeking or making application for licensure or any other
application related to the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(36).
SANCTION

Physician assistants must disclose accurate information on applications to enable the
Board and hospital credentialing committees to make informed decisions about the qualifications
of applicants and prospective employees. Mr. Gbadamosi’s false responses on his applications
prevented the Board and employers charged with the protection of the public from performing
their responsibilities. For the Board to implement its mandate, it is vital that all physician
assistants understand their obligation to disclose accurate and truthful information on licensure
applications. In failing to disclose this information, Mr. Gbadamosi ignored his legal obligations.
Such a troubling pattern of deliberate concealment and dishonesty weakens the public trust, and
has the potential to be very detrimental to public safety, Mr. Gbadamosi’s lack of candor
undermines public confidence in the integrity and dignity of the physician assistant profession,
dishonors the reputation of the great majority of physician assistants who practice with honesty,
and is inconsistent with the honesty required to maintain the privilege of licensure.

The panel has broad discretion to impose a sanction it deems appropriate in individual
cases. In view of the willful and deceptive nature of Mr. Gbadamosi’s repetitive behavior, the
panel will suspend Mr. Gbadamosi’s license for one year and impose a fine of $5,000.00,

ORDER
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, by an affirmative

vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel B, hereby:

ul

 
 

ORDERED that the physician assistant license of Respondent Ahmed Gbadamosi, PA-
C, License No. C04261, to practice medicine jn the State of Maryland, is SUSPENDED? for a
minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR; and it is further .

ORDERED that Mr. Gbadamosi shall pay a civil fine of FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS ($5,000.00) within ONE (1) YEAR. The payment shall be by money order or bank
certified check made payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians, and mailed to P.O. Box
37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297, The Board will not terminate the suspension of Mr.
Gbadamosi’s license if he fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that during the suspension period, Mr. Gbadamosi shall not:

(1) Practice medicine;

(2) Take any actions after the effective date of this Final Decision and Order to hold

himself out to the public as a licensed or current provider of medical services;

(3) Authorize, allow, or condone the use of his name or provider number by any health

practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(4) Function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical facility

in the State;

(5) Dispense medications or perform any other act that requires an active physician

assistant license; and it is further

ORDERED that Mr. Gbadamosi shall not apply for an early termination of suspension;
and it is further

ORDERED that if Mr. Gbadamosi allegedly violates this Final Decision and Order, Mr.

Gbadamosi shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel

 

* If Mr. Gbadamosi’s physician assistant license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any
requirements imposed by this Final Decision and Order will be tolled.

12

seapettenteneseean
 

determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an
Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings, followed by an exceptions
process before a disciplinary panel. If the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, Mr. Gbadamosi shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Mr. Gbadamosi has-violated this Final Decision and Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand
Mr. Gbadamosi, place Mr, Gbadamosi on probation with appropriate terms and conditions,
suspend Mr, Gbadamosi’s physician assistant license with appropriate terms and conditions, or
revoke Mr, Gbadamosi’s physician assistant license in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Mr.
Gbadamosi; and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by this Final Decision
and Order has passed, and if Mr. Gbadamosi has fully and satisfactorily complied with all
requirements of the Final Decision and Order, Mr. Gbadamosi may submit a written petition to
Disciplinary Panel B for termination of his suspension. After a determination that Mr.
Gbadamosi has complied with the requirements of this Final Decision and Order, the disciplinary
panel may administratively terminate Mr. Gbadamosi’s suspension through an order of the
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a PUBLIC document pursuant to

Health Occ. § 1-607, § 14-411.1(b)(2), and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

13

 
Signature on File

08/24 [2019 _

- = :
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Exec ive Director ff

 

Maryland State Board of Physicians

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW i

Pursuant to Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-315(b), Mr. Gbadamosi has the right to
seek judicial review of this Final Decision and Order, Any petition for judicial review shall be
filed within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order, The cover
letter accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any
petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act,
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of
Procedure.

If Mr, Gbadamosi files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
Noreen Rubin
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
ATTACHMENT A
MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF * BEFORE JENNIFER L. GRESOCK,

PHYSICIANS . : * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE

 

 

| | ‘OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE

 

AHMED GBADAMOSI, . * OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
RESPONDENT * QAHNo,: MDH-MBP2-74-18-29622
LICENSE No.: €04261 *

* * Lo * * * _* * -* * * * *

PROPOSED DECISION

 

STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

DISCUSSION |
PRPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
- PROPOSED DISPOSITION

STATEMENT OF THECASE |

On May 15, 2018, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (Board) issued charges against
Ahmed Gbadamosi (Respondent) for alleged violations of the Maryland Physician Assistants Act
(the Act), Md. Code Ann. Health Occ. §§ 15-101 ef seq, (2014 & Supp. 2018), Specifically, the
Respondent is charged with violating the following three sections of the Act: 15-314(a)(1)
(fraudulently or deceptively obtaining or attempting to obtain a license); 15-314(a)3)(i)
(unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine); and 15-314(a)(36) (willfully making a false
representation when secking or making application for licensure or any other application related
to the practice of medicine). Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10,32.02.03E()(4).

The disciplinary panel to which the complaint was assigned scheduled a meeting with the
Respondent on August 8, 2018, to explore the possibility of resolution. COMAR 10.32,02,03E(9).

The parties did not-resolve the issues at that time, On September 14, 2018, the matter was
 

delegated to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH) ‘to issue proposed findings of fact,
proposed conclusions of law, proposed sanctions, and a proposed disposition.

Theld’a hearing on December 10, 2018, atthe OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland.
Christopher B, Anderson, Assistant Attorney General and Administrative Prosecutor, represetited
the State of Maryland. John O. Iweanoge, Esquire, represented the Respondent, who was
present. , ,

The contested case provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, Yhe Rules of Procedure
for the Board, and the Rules of Procedure of the OAH govern procedure in this case. Md. Code
Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2014 & Supp. 2018); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR :
58.02.01. oe

_ISSUES

 

1. Did the Respondent fraudulently or deceptively obtain or attempt to obtain a license,
in violation of section 15-3 14(a)(1) of the Health Occupations:Ariicle? :

2. Did the Respondent engage in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in

, violation of section 15-31 4(@)(3)Gi) of the Health Occupations Article?

, 3. Did the Respondent willfully make a false representation when secking or-making
application for licensure or any other application related to the prectite of medicine, in violation of |
section 15-3 14(a)(36) of the Health Occupations Article?

4, If the Respondent committed any or all of the alleged violations listed above, what is
the appropriate sanction? . :
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
Ladinitted the following exhibits on belulf of the State, except as noted:

State Ex.1 Board Report of Investigation, dated November 20, 2017 .

2

 
 

_ State Ex. 2

State Ex. 3

State Ex, 4

State Ex. 5

State Ex.'6

State Ex. 7

Requests for Additional Information sent to Respondent, dated June 8, 2017
and June-26, 2017, and Respondent’s Response to the June 8, 2017 Request,
date-stamped June 22, 2017 :

Request for Explanation of Criminal History Records Check Result sent to
Respondent, dated October 20, 2017, and Respondent’s Responses, including email
chain with attachments, dated November 2, 2017; letters, dated November 2, 2017
and September 8, 2015; Email, dated November 2, 2017, with attached court
documents .

Subpoena Duces rece I i, dated August 30, 2017, and
Response, date-stamped September 19, ZUI'/. Response includes: Appointment ,

letter, dated November 24, 2015; Privilege Application, dated August 2015;

 
 
 

_ Recommendation Form — Provisional Appointment, dated December 3, 2015;

Memorandum ~ Temporary Privileges, dated August 27, 2015, Email, dated,
November 13, 2015; Professional Practice Evaluation (OPPE/F PPE) Plan, dated
December 3, 2015; Proctoring Evaluation Form (Medical), dated November 13,
2015; Maryland Hospital Credentialing Application, dated July 30, 2015, with
undated Addendum; Resume, undated; copy of Respondent's Georgia driver's

‘license; Authorization for Background Check, dated July 1, 2015; Emails, dated
_ September 3, 2015; Documents related to Delegation Agreement, various dates;

Bachelor of Science degree, dated December 18, 2009; AAPA Physician Assistant

. Profile, undated; National Practitioner Data Bank ptintout, dated September 4, 2015;

Letter, dated August 25, 2015; OIG Results, dated August 25, 2015; SAM: Search
Regults, undated; Private Byes, Inc. Report, dated August 26, 2015; Certificate of
Liability Insurance, dated July 31, 2015; MagMutual Letters, dated. September 28,
2015; Hospital Letter, dated August 25, 2015; CNA records,
dated August 25, 2015; Letters from Western Litigation and NCCPA, dated

“December 2, 2015, August 25, 2015, and July 30, 2015; Maryland Board of

Physicians Practitioner Profile System printout, dated August 25, 2015; License,
expiration date June 30, 2017; Department of Health and Mental Hygiene! ©
documeits, various dates; CDS license, expiration date April 30, 2017; Provider
Cards, various dates; Confidential References, various dates; Drug Enforcement
Administration (DEA) printout, dated August 3, 2015; DEA card, issued June 9,

_ 2015; Reference Request Forms, dated July 1, 201 5 EE “10 spit2l

Personnel documents, various dates

[NOT ADMITTED]

  
 

Subpoena Duces Tecum, Hospital, dated October 13, 2017, and
Response, date-stamped November 2, 2017, Response includes: Unemployment
Insurance document, dated May 17, 2017; ospital personnel
documents, various dates co

Court Records and Responses, including: documents from Cobb County, Georgia,
various dates (Tab A); documents from the Commonwealth of Virginia, various ©

 

' Now the Maryland Department of Health,

 
 

dates (Tab B); documents from the District of Columbia, dated September 5, 2017
(Lab C) : . ,

’ State Ex. 8  Respondent’s Board Licensure Information and Applications, including: initial
__ documents from June 29, 2010-certification, various dates (Tab A); 2011 Renewal
Application documents, various dates (Tab B); 2014 Reinstatement Application
documents, various dates (Tab C); 2015 Renewal Application documents, various
dates (Tab D); 2017 Renewal Application documents, various dates (Tab E); -
* Maryland Board of Physicians Practitioner Profile System printout, dated November
16, 2017 (Tab F); Mandated 10-Day Report, date of action June 1, 2015 (Tab G);
Delegation Agreement documents, various dates (Tab H)
‘The Respondent did not offer any exhibits for admission into evidence.
‘Testimony
‘The State presented the testimony of Maureen Sammons, Intake Manager for the Board of
Physicians. The Respondent testified on bis own behalf.
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
I find the following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:
1. The Respondent was first licensed as a physician assistant jn Maryland on June 29,
2010 (license number C04261). He was licensed continually until June 30, 2013, when his license
expired. His application for reinstatement was approved on October 28, 2014, and he has remained
continuously licensed since that time. ,
2. Sometime in 2010, the Respondent moved to Georgia and remained there until”
sometime in 201 5, when he returned to Maryland,
3. On September 18, 2014, the Respondent pleaded guilty to and was convicted of
criminal trespass, a misdemeanor, in the State Court of Cobb County, Georgia.
4, The Respondent was sentenced to twelve months’ confinement. He was required to
serve one day of that sentence and was placed on probation for the balance of the twelve months.

5 On September 17, 2014, the Respondent submitted an application for reinstatement ‘

tothe Board, dated September 10, 2014 (2014 Reinstatement Application).

 
 

 

 

6, The 2014 Reinstatement Application included the following question (Question 12e)
with regard to the period since the Appellant's last renewal, which occurred on June 30, 2013: Have

you been charged with or convicted of any criminal act for which you pled nolo contendere, could

receive, or did receive, probation before judgment, or were sentenced to probation or confinement?
(e.g. police reports; court orders or judgments; orders of probation; certificates and/ot letters of
completion of any mandatory program(s), termination of probation, orders of dismissal, orders of
expungement). . . ,
‘7; , The Respondent marked the box indicating “no” ag the answer to Question 12c.
This response was false.
8. The Respondent s 2014 Reinstatement Application was pss on October 28,
2014.”
9. On May 7, 2015, the Respondent submitted axi application for renewal of his license .
(2015 Renewal Application). ” .
10. The 2015 Renewal Application included the following question (Question TLD with
regard fo the period since thé Appellant’s reinstatement, which occurred on October 28, 2014: Has a
; hospital, related health care facility, HMO, or alternative health care system denied your application
for privileges, or failed to renew yout privileges, including your privileges as a residént; or limited,
rested, suspended, or revoked your privileges in any way?
ll.‘ The Respondent marked the box indicating “no” as the answer to Question If. At
the time the Respondent marked the box, the answer he provided was truthful.
12,  OnJune 1, 2015, the Respondent was terminated from
13, Po oo is a medical

practice with multiple health care facility locations in Maryland.

 
 

FINDINGS OF FACT

 

Panel B adopts the findings of fact numbered 1-28 proposed by the ALJ with one
modification. The panel corrects the date in Finding of Fact 3 of the ALJ’s Proposed Decision to
state that Mr. Gbadamosi pleaded guilty to and was convicted of criminal trespass, a
misdemeanor, in the State Court of Cobb County, Georgia, on February 18, 2014. The panel
adopts that finding as amended. (The ALJ’s Proposed Decision of February 22, 2019 is
incorporated by reference into this Final Decision and Order and is appended to this Order as
Attachment A).

In addition to her findings that Mr. Gbadamosi falsely answered questions on Board
licensure applications in 2014 and 2017, and on a Maryland Hospital Credentialing Application
in July, 2015, the ALJ made the following findings regarding Mr, Gbadamosi’s employment
history:

(1) Mr. Gbadamosi was terminated from his position at a medical practice in June, 2015,

after three weeks of employment, due to poor attendance and failure to follow policy and
protocols, See Finding of Fact 12; ALJ Proposed Dec., pp. 15-16.

(2) Mr. Gbadamosi failed to disclose that prior employment on his July, 2015
credentialing application, when he applied for another position at a hospital facility that month,
despite clear language on that application requiring that the applicant list “ALL HEALTHCARE
FACILITIES at which you hold or have held privileges.” See Finding of Fact 17; ALJ Proposed
Dec., p. 18.

(3) Mr. Gbadamosi falsely answered “NO” to another question on the 2015 hospital
credentialing application asking whether his membership on the staff of “any facility, health

plan, or HMO ... had “ever been voluntarily or involuntarily withdrawn, relinquished . . .

 
4

14. The Respondent didnot notify the Board of his termination from fe
despite] his pétding 2015 Renewal Application.

15,  Onorabout July 30, 2015, the Respondent applied for hospital privileges yi

| a i MED cyan, by completing the Maryland Hospital Credentialing

, / Application (Crodentialing Application).

16. The Credentialing Application required the Respondent to disclose “all healthcare
facilities” at which he held or had held privileges; to indicate whether his “membership on the staff
_ of any facility, health plan, or HMO” had “ever been... voluntarily or involuntarily withdrawn, .
relinquished, not renewed, reduced, limited, placed on probation; denied, revoked, suspended, or
investigated;” and to disclose whether he had “ever been named as a defendant in a criminal case,
other than misdemeanor traffic violation.” , .
17. Onhis completed Credentialing Apolication, the Respondent failed to disclose both
his employment with and termination =_ | He also did not disclose his 2014
conviction for criminal trespass. ,
18. . On or about September 11, 2015, the Respondent was granted temporary privileges
5: valid through January 1, 2016. .
19. OnNovember 13, 2015, the Respondent was hired as a provisional staff member at
HE 3:0. The appointment was valid through November 30, 2016 and was
subsequently extended through November 30, 2017. . -
20, - InJanuary 2017, the Respondent was evaluated by his supervisor at ia
BE 02%, who determined that the Respondent had failed to ‘meet the standard of care.
The supervisor noted concerns regarding interpersonal interaction, slow response time, and.

improper documentation.

 
21, On or about March 7, 2017, the Respondent's supervisor met with him to discuss
problems with the Respondent’s patient care, punctuality, and responsiveness to colleagues and
patients. ‘The Respondent’s supervisor noted that he bad been counseled repeatedly and
recommended that he be terminated, citing concerns about the Respondent’s work performance,
including unresponsiveness to patient needs and colleagues, rudeness, inadequate patient care,
and medication errors. . .

22. On March 1; 2017, the Respondent resigned from his position |
Hospital in lieu of termination.

23, OnJune 7, 2017, the Respondent submitted an application for renewal of his license
(2017 Renewal Application). ,

24. The 2017 "Renewal Application included the following question, with regard to the. .
period since-June 30, 2015 (Question ILo); Have you voluntarily resigned or tenninated a contract
from any hospital, HMO, or other health care-facility, health care provider, or institution, armed
services or the Veterans Administration while under investigation by that institution for disciplinary
reasons?

25, The Respondent marked “no” in xesponse to Question To, His answer was false, as
he did not disclose his March 7, 2017 resignation in lieu of termination ion
Hospital. ,

, 26. Effective October 1, 2016, all Board applicants and licensees are required to submit
to criminal history background checks, including both state and national criminal history record .
information? Previously, the Board relied on applicants’ self-reporting.

27. The submission of the Respondent’s 2017 Renewal Application required that the

Respondent submit to a criminal background check. ‘That criminal background check flagged

 

2 See section 15-307(g) of the Health Occupations Article of the Maryland Annotated Code (Supp. 2018),

 
criminal history that prompted the Board to further investigate thé Respondent's criminal history, ~
employment history, and prior applications he bad submitted jo the Board,

28. The Respondent has no prior violations ‘and has not previously been sanctioned by
the Board.

* DISCUSSION

 

Legal Standards /

‘The Board is responsible for the licensure of physician assistants in ‘Maryland. Md, Code
Ann., Health Occ. §§ 15-301d)(1) and 15-305 (2014. & Supp. 2018). A physician assistant is an
_ individual who is licensed to practice medicine with physician:supervision. In addition to
licensing authority, the Board also has disciplinary authority. Accordingly, the Board may
reprimand any physician assistant, place any physician assistant-on probation, or suspend or
revoke a license for Violations of that section. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-314 (Supp.
2018). Before the Boat takes such action, the physician assistant is entitled to a hearing before
an administrative la judge. Md. Code Ann,, Health Oce. § 15-315 (Supp. 2018). Furthermore,
if after a hearing under section 15-315, the Board finds there are grounds for discipline under
section. 15-3 14(a), the Board may impose a fine subject to the Board's regulations instead of or
in addition to suspending or revoking the license or reprimanding the licensee. Ma, Code Ann.,
Health Oce, § 15.316 (2014),

In an administrative hearing, the Stateyas the moving party, has the burden of proof by a
preponderatice of the evidence to demonstrate that the Respondent violated the statutory and

regulatory sections at issue. Comm'r of Labor and Indus. ¥. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 344 Md. 17,

34 (1996), citing Bernstein v. Real Estate Comm'n, 221 Ma. 201, 231 (1959); Md, Code Ann.,

_ State Gov't § 10-217 (2014), See also Schaffer v. Weast, 546 U.S. 49, 56 - 58 (2005).

 
 

In this case, the Board alleges that the Respondent violated provisions of section 15-3 14(a)

‘as follows:

(1) Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempis to obtain a license for the
applicant of licensee or for another;

(3) Is guilty of:

“ai Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; *

G6) willfully makes a false representation when seeking or making application
for licensure or arly other application related to the practice of medicine[.]

Mad. Code Amn., Health Oce, § 15-314(a)(1), (2)(3)(H), and @)G6).
Motion for Judgment
At the close of the State’s case, the Respondent n made an oral motion for judgment, arguing
that the State had not carried its burden. A party may make a motion for judgment purmiant to
COMAR 28.02.01.12 at the close of the evidence offered by the opposing party. i may decline to
, render such judgment until the close of all evidence, which is what | did in this case, COMAR
28. 02. O1.12E(2)(b). The Respondent then opted to offer evidence; in so doing, he withdrew his
motion for judgment i in accordance with the OAH Rules of Procedure. COMAR 28.02.01.12E@).
There.is therefore no need for me to address the motion further in this decision, i
Arguments of the Parties -
The State contended that the Respondent engaged i in a pattern of false attestation and
concealment of his employment and criminal history in order to reinstate and maintain his
license, This concealment is demonstrated through the false information the Respondent ~

provided on multiple applications submitted to the Board, including his 2014 Reinstatement

   
 

Application, 2015 Renewal Application and Crédentialing Application, and 2017 Renewal.
Application. Noting the Board’s responsibility to protect the public by evaluating the character

and fitness of applicants and licensees, the State argued that the Respondent compromised that

, a by concealing information and providing false résponses to questions. That‘he did so

over a period of three years, and on four different applications, reflects a troubling pattern ‘of
deliberate concealment that is inconsistent with the honesty required to maintain a license to,
practice medicine.

‘The Respondent disagreed with the State’s characterization of the applications he
submitted, arguing that he acted | in good faith at all times and reasonably believed that he’ hod
disclosed all information he was required to disclose. The Respondent also disputed the Board’s
conclusions regarding his employinent history, maintaining that he voluntarily quit the two /

positions from whith the Board claims he was: either terminated or resigned in lieu of

termination. He further contended that the 2014 criminal conviction was expunged. As he had

no intention to deceive and completed all epplications to the best of his knowledge and ability,
the Respondent argued that he did not violate the law and should not be subject to discipline.
Testimony ,

. Maureen Sammons, Intake Manager for the Board, testified on behalf of the State, She
explained that cases are referred to her unit if something i in the criminal history background
check “pops,” meaning that the background check reflécts any criminal history. In the

Respondent’s case, the first criminal history background check was Tun when he submitted his

. 2017 Renewal Application, as the law had been changed the prior yeat to require criminal history

’ background checks.. When the Respondent’s' criminal history background check yielded a

positive result; it was referred to her unit and she conducted a full investigation. “As part of that

investigation, » she gathered documentary evidence from courts in the relevant jurisdictions as

 
 

well as information and documents from the Respondent’s previous employers. In addition, she

reviewed the prior applications the Respondent had submitted to the Board. Ms. Sammons

" testified that this investigation revealed that the Respondent had submitted false information on

multiple applications, including licensure applications and a credentialing application.
Specifically, Ms, Sammons found that on February 18, 2014, the Respondent pleaded
guilty to criminal trespass in Cobb County, Georgia. He was sentenced to twelve months’

confinement, served one day in jail, and was placed on probation for the remainder of the twelve

"months, In addition, Ms, Sammons discovered that the Respondent had a troubling employment

history, including termination from his briefly-held position vith well as
resignation in lieu of termination from his position vic TT 0:5: Based on
information provided by a 2:2. Ms. Sammons concluded that the
Respondent’s supervisor had recomriended separation based on multiple complaints about the
Respondent’s work performance, including unresponsiveness to patient needs and colleagues,
rudeness, inadequate patient care, and medication errors,

‘With this new information in mind, Ms. Sammons reviewed the information the
Respondent provided in his 2017 Renewal Application, as well as prior applications he had
submitted to the Board, According to Ms. Sammons, this review revealed that the Respondent
had, on four separate occasions, failed to answer application questions truthfully, His false
answers included the following:

° . On his 2014 Reinstatement Application, the Respondent indicated that he had .

not been charged with or convicted of any criminal act for which he pled nolo
contendere, could receive, or did receive probation before judgment, or was
sentenced to probation or confinement, His answer applied to the-period since

June 30, 2013, and his 2014 Reinstatement Application was submitted in

 
 

September 2014, Ms, Sammons explained that his answer was false because

it omitted his February 2014 conviction. . .
On his 2015 Renewal-Application, which covered the period since his October
28, 3014 reinstatement, the Respondent indicated that a hospital, related .

* health care facility, HMO, or alternative health care system had not denied his
application for privileges or failed to renew his privileges, including his
privileges as a resident, or limited, ‘restricted, suspended or revoked his
privileges in any way. ‘Ms. Sammons explained that’ his answer was false
because several weeks after he submitted the 2015 Renewal Application and
before the renewal deadline, the Respondent was terminated from his
employment with SO
On his 2015 Credentialing Application, the Respondent did not inolude his
employment with EE ouch he was required to list all
healthcare facilities at which he holds or has held privileges. He also did not

_ disclose ‘his termination from that position, though the application required
that information. Further; the Respondent did not disclose his 2014.”
conviction for criminal trespass, though the application also required this.
information. Ms. Sammons maintained that the Respondent therefore
provided false infomation, ;

On his 2017 Renewal Application, which covered the period since June 30,
2015, the Respondent indicated that he hed not voluntarily resigned or

. terminated a contract from any hospital, HMO, other health care facility,

health care provider, or institution, armed service or the Veterans .

: Administration while under investigation by that institution for disciplinary

17.

 
   

reasons. Ms, Sammons explained that this answer was false because the
Respondent had resigned from employment i
Hospital after being counseled both formally and informally following
investigation of complaints from patients and colleagues. ,

In November 2017, Ms. Sammons -prepated a report reflecting these findings and.
documenting the sources upon which she relied, She notéd both in her testimony and her report
that the Respondent was contacted during the investigation and given an opportunity to provide
explanations for his failure to disclose required information. She testified that he disputed the

circumstances of his separation ‘om bo TT i .

With regard to the former, the Respondent submitted a letter-to Ms, Sammons that stated he was

unjustly terminated following contentious exchanges with the office manager and a dispute about,

medications provided to several patients, With regard to the latter, he claimed that the work
schedule requirements were too demanding, and that he resigned over his schedule, Finally, he
provided an explanation of the circumstances of the 2014 conviction but did not dispute the
charge or conviction. .

The Respondent testified on his own behalf. With regard to the 2014 conviction, the
Respondent maintained that the conviction bad been expunged, and that he was specifically told
by the attorney who represented him that he would not need to disclose the conviction, as it
would not appear anywhere on his record. He therefore believed that the responses he provided

. oD applications regarding criminal history were accurate and truthful. With regard to his
employment ic TE 5: the Respondent testified that he resigned
because the organization was understaffed, and be was expected to work every weekend, The
intensity of the schedule left him feeling burned out, so he resigned. With regard 5

a: Respondent testified that his employer demanded that he prescribe pain medications:

+”

 
even though he lacked the required professional-license to do so. The Respondent testified. that
he resigned rather than prescribe medications illegaly.

The Respondent insisted that he answered all questions onthe applications to the best of
his knowledge and ability. On cross-examination, he acknowledged that at no time did he

_ provide the: Board with documents to support his contention that his 2014 conviction ‘was
‘expunged. He contended that because of the expungement, there were no such documents or
records and therefore he could not provide them. He also insisted that he had resigned from

a: that contradicts the explanatory letter he submitted to the Board in
September 2017 stating (repeatedly) he had been termiziated, «The Respondent testified that they
terminated him after bis resignation to make him look bad. The Respondent also ‘disputed Ms.
Sammons’ conclusions geri A He denied any issues or
complaints during his employment there and maintained that he was never counseled by his
employer. He denied that the signature on the written counseling document fon
HE :.::::2 was his own and that the other document had no signature for him,
claiming that he had never seen either document prior to the hearing.”

Anais .

"The State presented clear, persuasive evidence that the Respondent engaged in a pattern of
misrepresentation and deception in the licensure and credentialing applications he submitted to the
Board. The Board conducted a thorough investigation, gathering documents and giving the
“Respondent an opportunity to respond during the course of the investigation. At no time has the
Respondent credibly refuted the facts alleged by the State, and Ttherefore find that the State has

. shown violations of sections 15-314(a)(1), @)@), and (36) of the Health Occupations Article,

 

3 The Respondent refers to the Eniployee/Supervisor Written Conference Reports dated January 4, 2017, and March
71,2017. (State Ex. 6, p. 275-76.) .

-14-

 

 
Specifically, the State demonstrated the Respondent was convicted of criminal trespass in 4

February 2014 and sentenced to confinement and probation (State Ex, 7B), and he subsequently |

 

_ failed to disclose that information on his 2014 Reinstatement Application and his Credentialing ‘

 

Application. | (State Ex. 8C and 4B.) Both applications included questions to which the Respondent
clearly should have answered “yes,” as he was convicted of a criminal act and was sentenced to
confinement and probation. Neither application question excluded crimes for which an applicant

has been granted an h expungement, More significantly, the Respondent offered no evidence that
there was in fact any expungement of his 2014 criminal conviction. He also offered no evidence to ,
support his claim that he had a good faith basis for believing that such an expungement had

occurred.

/ Yam also persuaded that the Respondent was terminated from his position with

| that he resigned in lieu of termination ftom his position vii iii
Hospital, The Respondent testified that he resigned ion he was pressured fo
improperly prescribe pain; medications to patients. This contradicts the written account he provided
to the Board i in September 2015. (State Ex. 3.) In this written account, the Respondent refbrs to his

: termination from a: separate times, stating that he was “released on [his] third
week,” that he was “erminated,” and that he ‘was “terminated unjustly.” While his letter does allege
improper and inadequate training, as well as some dispute about whether several patients under the ”
Respondents care were given medication that was not prescribed to them, atno time does the

" Respondent state that he was pressured to prescribe pain medications that he was not permitted to
prescribe. Furthermore, the Respondent's letter dogs not claim that he resigned or voluntarily

separated from employment. The Respondent's account at the hearing of his purported voluntary

separation ion Es simply not credible.
 

revoked, suspended, or investigated,” despite his termination from his position at the medical

practice a month earlier. See Findings of Fact 16, 17, ALJ Proposed Dec., p. 18.

(4) Mr. Gbadamosi falsely answered “NO” to yet another question on the employment
credentialing application asking whether he had “ever been named as a defendant in a criminal
case .. .”, when in fact he had been convicted of criminal trespass in 2014. See Finding of Fact
17.

(5) In January, 2017, Mr, Gbadamosi was evaluated by his supervisor at the hospital
facility, who determined that Mr. Gbadamosi had failed to meet the standard of care. The
supervisor noted concerns regarding interpersonal interaction, slow response time, and improper
documentation. See Finding of Fact 20.

(6) Mr. Gbadamosi resigned from the hospital facility in lieu of termination. See Finding
of Fact 22.

The factual findings in this case were proven by’a preponderance of the evidence. The
panel also adopts the ALJ’s discussion and analysis on pages 8-20 of the Proposed Decision.

The ALJ’s Credibility Determinations

Based on the ALJ’s evaluation of the documentary evidence and Mr. Gbadamosi’s
testimony at the hearing, the ALJ found that he failed to credibly refute the facts alleged by the
State, and engaged in multiple instances of deception, which she found represented a troubling
pattern of deception. The ALJ also determined that Mr. Gbadamosi’s testimonial claims and
responses to the facts presented at the hearing were implausible and undermined his credibility
because they were unsupported by any credible explanations. In addition, the ALJ found that Mr.

Gbadamosi took no responsibility for his false representations, but continued to offer

   
 

In sition, the State provided the Mandated 10-Day Report — | which
was submitted to the Board i in June 2015, indicating that the Respondent was terminated “due to,
poor attendance and failure to follow policy and protocols.” (State Ex. 8G.) The Respondent’ 8
claim that he resigned i ts inconsistent with both his own written statement and the employer’s

_ account of his separation. It is clear from the evidence that he was terminated con
_ | )
Even less credible i is the Respondent’s version of] his separation ion

Hospital. The ‘Respoindent claimed that he-voluntarily resigned because he was-expected to work
“every weekend, rather than one weekend a month, as he had been told when he was hired. He
‘ denied that he was the subject of complaints by patients or colleagues, orthat there were any issues
scenring quality of care. However, the employment records obtained by the Board ard submitted
. into evidence demonstrate that the Respondent was ‘the subject of complaints regarding his
- interactions with patients arid colleagues, and that his employer had concems about quality of care
and patient safety. (tox 6.) The Respondent himself signed an SSmployee/Supervisor Written
Conference Report dated Ji anuary 4, 2017, which documented the complaints and patient safety

" jgsues, as well as the employer’ s detailed discussion of these issues with the Respondent, .

The Respondent denied that the signature on the January 4, 2017 document is his; he argued

. that the signature differs from the one he provided on other documents, pointing specifically to
delegation documents (State Ex. 8H, p. 7) and a Court Return Notice (Gute Ex. 7A, p. 299)
bearing his signature. Certainly the signatures are not idetica (on the J anuary 4, m7 document,
for example, the signature includes only the first initial, while the other two signatures have the .
Respondent's first name varitted out in full). ‘In addition, there are some smell irregularities in the
March 7, 2017 Employee/Supervisor ‘Written Conference Report; fot example, the Report bears a

signature that appears fo be crossed out, as if someone (not the Respondent) initially signed in the

we

 
wrong place and then attempted to correct the error, In fact, the March 7, 2017 document does not
include a signature for the Respondent. On its face, the document does not include any verification
that it was presented to the Respondent: The January 4, 2017 document includes feedback from the

Respondent in the “Employee’s comments” portion of the form, but that portion of the form is left

blank on the March 7, 2017 document.

Nonetheless, these inregularities are minor, especially when weighed against the Respondent’s

own lack of credibility, The January 4, 2017 document clearly reflects a discussion the Respondent’s

supervisor had with him rogarding patient complaints, rudeness, attendance issues, and complaints
from colleagues.’ It includes his supervisor’s comments about the Respondent's responses during the
discussion, inchiding questions that be asked and his assertion that he did not have a record of

" tardiness. The Respondent articulated no nefarious motivation or rationale to support his implication.
that someone falsified tie January 4 2017 document. He offered no explanation or support for his
claim that the signature on the form was not his own.

In short, the Respondent's claizh that he had no 0 knowledge of complaints against him is not
credible, The Respondent’s lack of credibility undermines his assertion that he simply resigncd, and
that his resignation was not in lieu of termination, The documents from
Hospital consistently reflect its position that the Respondent resigned in lieu of termination; these ;
documents include the March 7, 2017 recommendation for termination, information provided to the
Division of Unemployment Insurance (State Ex. 6, p. 225), and the employer s personnel records
(State Ex, 6, pp. 226-228), Bven ifthe Respondent ‘was never presented with the March 7, 2017

‘written recommendation of termination, it is clear from the January 4, 2017 document that he was -
aware of his employer's concems, despite his claim to the contrary. Accordingly, conclude that -
the Respondent resigned in lieu of terfnination from his position vith Hospital,

and that this occurred in March 2017.

 
 

Inow consider-the applications submitted by the Respondent to the Board, in light of the .
criminal and employnient history discussed above; the allegedly ‘false statements in these
applications are key to the Board’s allegations of statutory violations.

Both the 2014 Reinstatement Application and the Credentialing Application include
questions regarding the Respondent's criminal histoty. The Respondént’s answer on the 2014
Reinstatement Application was unequivocally false: he answered “no” when in fact he had been
convicted of a criminal act for which he was sentenced to probation and confinement. (State Ex.
‘8C,) The Respondent's a answer on the Credentialing Application was also false, as it requires ,
disclosure of a conviction for “any misdemeanor.” (State Ex. 4, p.41.) In addition, the ;
Respondent failed to disclose his employment with and termination on i. his
Credentialing Application, despite clear language in the Credentialing Application requiring that
the applicant list “ALL HEALTHCARE FACILITIES AT WHICH You HOLD OR HAVE
HELD PRIVILEGES.” ‘The Respondent signed the Credentialing Application on July 30, 2015;
his employment vt had only ended in the previous ‘month. The most likely
explanation for a failure to disclose such recent employment history is a desire to deceive with
regard to that history; that be merely overlooked an incident that so recently ocourred is not

plausible,

Similarly, the Respondent failed to disclose both his termination con ,

and his resignation in lieu of termination con 0500: in his. 2015 Renewal

Application and his 2017 Renewal Application. When the Respondent completed the 2017
Renewal Application i in early June 2017, his resignation in lieu of termination, from | |

BE scien had only been a few months prior. The resignation is clearly within the

. scope of the question on the renewal application, which refers to voluntary resignation while

-1R.-

 
 

under investigation for disciplinary reasons. Again, the Respondent provided a false answer on
this Renewal Application. . —

The State’s position with regard to the 201 5 Renewal Application is less compelling; as
the State acknowledges, at the time the Respondent completed the renewal application, in early .
May 2015, he had not yet been terminated com Es: responses on the renewal
application were therefore truthful at the time he completed the application. While it is true that -
he did not correct his dnswer when he was terminated just a few weeks later, which was before
the renewal deadline, the renewal application contains no statement about an obligation to
correct or amend information provided in the application. Certainly the most forthright approach
would have been for the Respondent to notify the Board of his termination in early June.
However, I am not persuaded that his failure to do so was willfully deceptive or fraudulent.

I conclude that the Respondent made false representations on multiple applications
submitted to the Board, including the 2014 Reinstatement Application, the Credentialing
Application, and the 2017 Renewal Application. , ,

* Finally, [ tum to the specific violations with which the Board has charged the Respondent

under section 1s- 314(a) of the Health Occupations Article: that the Respondent fraudulently or

’ deceptively obtained or attempted t to obtain a license; that the Respondent is guilty of

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; and that the Respondent willfully made a false
representation when secking or making application for licensure or any other application related
to the practice of medicine. The State emphasizes that the false information submitted by the
Respondent was submitted over a period, of three years and involved multiple applications, noting
that this is indicative of a pattern of deception, rather than-a careless oversight. The State, also

noted the particular importance of honesty in the practice of medicine. The State contends that @

 
 

pattern of dishonésty amounts te unprofesional conduct that is contrary to the Respondent's
obligations and responsibilities as a physician assistant, .

Lagree. The willfully deceptive information the Respondent provided « on the 2014 -
. Reinstatement Application, the Credentialing Application, and the 2017 Renewal Application
reflect a clear pattern of dishonesty, as well as a willingness to put self-interest before
. professional responsibility. Such a pattern is incompatible with the professional conduct,
including truthfulness, required ofa physician assistant, who must establish trust as a core
component of his or her relationships with Voth colleagues and patients. Accordingly, I find that:
the Respondent deceptively obtained his licensure, is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice’ of medicine, and willfully made false representatiods on his licensure applications and
Credentialing Application, in violation of section 15-314(a)(1), 3)Gi), and (36) of the-Health -
* Occupations Article. ,
Sanctions

The State cited the sanctioning guidelines in COMAR 10.32.03. 18, which sets out a range of
sanctions for specified violations. For violations of section 15-314(a)(1), the recommendation ranges
from a reprimand with two years of probation to evocation, and/or a fine of 85, 000.00 to
$25, 000.00. For willfully making a false representation in violation of section 153 M(a)GO), the
recommendation ranges ftom a reprimand to a revocation, and/or a fine of $5;000.00 to $25,000.00
Along with these guidelines, COMAR 10,32.03,178(4) and (5) set out mitigating and aggravating
factors. Mitigating factors include the history of viclations, whether the violation was self-reported,
whether the individual admitted to and/or disclosed the violation, any remedial measures or good
faith efforts to rectify the consequences, rehabilitative potential, potential harm, whether the violation ;

was premeditated, and whether the incident was an isolated one. Aperavating factors include

* Unprofessional conduct under section 15-314(a)(3)Gi) is not specifically listed in the guidelines,

an

 
previous ‘disciplinary history; whether the violation was deliberate, grossly negligent, or reckless;

‘potential or actual harm; whether the violation was part of a pattern; whether there were multiple

 

i offenses adjudicated in a single action, whether financial gain was a “factor, the vulnerability of the

 

patients; whether the individual attempted to hide the error; concealment, falsification, or destruction
of evidence; failure to cooperate with investigation; and evidence of previous failure of
rehabilitation. .

Of these factors, the State noted i in particular the deliberateness of the Respondent's actions,
the pattern of deception, the factually discrete offenses being addressed ina single action, and the
Respondent’s continued attempts to conceal and/or minimize his conduct. The State proposes a

. one-year suspension, with possible reinstatement upon application at that time, and payment of a.
$25,000. 09 fine before submission of that application. The State acknowledged that this is a large *
fine, but argued that the false statements provided by the Respondent allowed him 1o advance his
career and enjoy the financial gain from ‘such advancement after obtaining licensure based on
fraudulent and deceptive representations, ;

J agree with the State’s consideration of the relevant factors. While the Respondent has had
no prior violations, the Board's investigation revealed multiple instances of deception which,
together, represent a troubling pattem of deception. In addition, the Respondent continues to offer .
explanations that strain credibility, rather than taking responsibility for his false misrepresentations.
Accordingly, I find the proposed $25,000.00 fine, to be paid before the Respondent may apply for
reinstatement after a one-year suspension, both fair and appropriate, COMAR 10,32,03.17A and G.

pROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

ERUE UO ee

I conclude as follows:
1. The Respondent fraudulently or deceptively obtained a license, in violation of

section 15-314(a)(1) of the Health Ocoupations Article;
 

2. The Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of section 15-314(a)(3)Gi) of the Health Occupations Astle
3. The Respondent willfully made false represeniations when seeking or making

application for licensure or any other application related to the practice of medicine, in violation of .

" section 15-3 14(@)(36) of the Health Occupations Article;

4. “The appropriate sanction is that the Respondent be suspend for one year and fined

$25, 000, 00, with the fine to be paid in full before submission of any application for reinstatement. ©

. COMAR 10.32.03.17A and G; COMAR 1032.03.18

PROPOSED DISPOSITION |

I PROPOSE that the charges filed by: -the Board on _May 15, 2018,-against the ne Respondent

based. on his alleged violation of Section 15-3 14(a)(1), (3)(ii), and (36) of the Health Occupations

Article be UPHELD; andl further

PROPOSE that the Respondent be fined $25,000.00 and suspended for one year, with the ©

fine to be paid in full before the submission of any application for reinstatement,’

February 22, 2019
Date Decision Mailed

 

Administrative Law Judge

JLG/dim
#177776

29m

 
 

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may file written exceptions,
with the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the
captioned case to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), and request a hearing on the
exceptions. Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-216(a) (2014); COMAR 10.32.02,05. Exceptions
must be filed-within fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order, COMAR
10,32.02,05B(1). The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary
Panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Attu:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director. °

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attorney, and the other party

will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response addressed as

above, /d. The disciplinary panel will issue a final order following the exceptions hearing or
other formal panel proceedings, Md, Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-216, 10-221 (2014);
COMAR 10,32.02.05C. The OAH is not a party to any review process. .

Copies Mailed To:

Gnristine A, Farrelly, Executive Director

Compliance Administration
Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue |
Baltimore, MD 21215

Christopher B. Anderson

Assistant Attorney General

Office of the Attorney General

Maryland Department of Health

Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division
300 West Preston Street, Suite 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer

Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division’
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201,

Baltimore, MD 21201 2

John O. Iweanoge, Esquire
1026 Monroe Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20017-1760

Ahmed Gbadamosi, PA-C

  
Nicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel
Wealth Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division,
Office of the Attorney General .
300 West Preston Street, Room 201
’ Baltimore, MD 21201

 

 

   

-24-
 

explanations that strained credibility. For example, Mr. Gbadamosi testified that he voluntarily
resigned from his position at the medical practice, in stark contradiction to the mandated 10-day
report submitted from the practice to the Board disclosing his termination, and Mr. Gbadamosi’s
own written response to the Board stating three separate times that he was “released on [his]
third week,” that he was “terminated,” and that he was “terminated unjustly.” Panel B adopts the
ALJ’s credibility determinations on Mr. Gbadamosi.

CONSIDERATION OF EXCEPTIONS

 

Mr. Gbadamosi does not dispute the ALJ’s proposed findings and conclusions that he
was terminated from the medical practice in June 2015, nor does he challenge the ALJ’s findings
that he failed to disclose his employment with and termination from the practice as well as his
criminal conviction on the 2015 hospital credentialing application. He also does not dispute the
ALJ’s finding that he was evaluated by his supervisor at the hospital facility in January, 2017,
Mr. Gbadamosi does take exception specifically to the ALJ’s proposed factual findings
numbered 7, 21, and 25. He also excepts generally to the ALJ’s proposed conclusions of law that
he fraudulently or deceptively obtained or attempted to obtain a license, engaged in
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, and willfully made a false representation
when seeking or making application for licensure or any other application in the practice of
medicine.

In Finding of Fact 7, the ALJ found that Mr. Gbadamosi provided a false response on his
2014 Reinstatement Application to the Board, by answering “NO” to Question 12e which asked
whether he had ever been charged with or convicted of any criminal act for which he was
sentenced to probation or confinement. Mr. Gbadamosi further certified on his application that

the information in his responses was true and correct. In his exceptions, Mr. Gbadamosi does not

 
 

dispute the charge or conviction but argues that his “NO” answer was based on his belief that his
criminal offense had been expunged from the record, and that he held this belief in good faith
based on the advice of counsel in the criminal matter. The record does not support Mr.
Gbadamosi’s arguments.

The court documents obtained by the Board from the Georgia State Court of Cobb
County established that Mr. Gbadamosi pled guilty to misdemeanor criminal trespass on
February 18, 2014, and was sentenced to 12 months confinement. Under the terms of a
negotiated plea, Mr, Gbadamosi was incarcerated for one day and placed on probation for the
remaining 11 months and 29 days of his sentence, with probationary conditions that included
evaluation and treatment for anger/violence, Mr. Gbadamosi applied for reinstatement in
Maryland just seven months after his plea and conviction. At the evidentiary hearing, Mr.
Gbadamosi did not provide any documentation to support his assertions that his conviction had
been expunged from the court record or that his criminal counsel had so advised him, He further
argues in his exceptions that his answer was not false because of his good faith but mistaken
belief concerning expungement. Based on the plain language of the question on the 2014
reinstatement application - which made.no exception for expungement - and the evidence in the
criminal court documents, this was not a good faith error on Mr. Gbadamosi’s part. His stated
beliefs were neither reasonable nor plausible. The ALJ found that his “NO” answer to this
licensure question was unequivocally false and willfully made. The panel concurs, Mr.
Gbadamosi’s exception to Finding of Fact 7 is denied.

In Finding of Fact 21, the ALJ found that Mr. Gbadamosi’s employment supervisor at a
Maryland hospital met with him on March 7, 2017 to discuss problems with Mr. Gbadamosi’s

patient care, punctuality, and responsiveness to colleagues and patients, The supervisor noted

 
 

that Mr. Gbadamosi had been counseled repeatedly and recommended that he be terminated,
citing concerns about Mr, Gbadamosi’s work performance, including responsiveness to patient
needs and colleagues, rudeness, inadequate patient care, and medication errors. The March 7,
2017 meeting was preceded by an earlier meeting that Mr. Gbadamosi had with the supervisor in
January, 2017 (Finding of Fact 20), as documented on an Employee/Supervisor Written
Conference Report dated January 4, 2017. In his exceptions, Mr. Gbadamosi argues that the ALJ
erred in making Finding of Fact 21 because the Employee/Supervisor Written Conference Report
dated March 7, 2017 from the hospital does not contain his signature or verify that it was ever
presented to him. Again, the record does not support Mr. Gbadamosi’s arguments.

Mr, Gbadamosi’s hospital employment records® demonstrate that Mr. Gbadamosi was the
subject of multiple formal and informal complaints at the hospital regarding rudeness,
responsiveness, and attendance issues, as well as unprofessional interactions with nursing staff
and patients, and the quality of care he was providing to patients. It is also evident that Mr.
Gbadamosi was aware of these complaints because he signed the Employee/Supervisor Written
Conference Report dated January 4, 2017. In that January 4, 2017 Report, Mr. Gbadamosi’s
supervisor included specific feedback and responses that he gave to the supervisor’s questions in
the “Employce’s Comments” section of the document. At the hearing, the ALJ did not find
credible Mr, Gbadamosi’s assertion that the signature on the January 4, 2017 report was not his,
nor did she accept his claims that he was unaware of the hospital’s complaints against him. Panel
B is similarly unpersuaded.

First, upon inspection, the signature “A, Gbadamosi” on the January 4, 2017 Report
merely omits the remaining letters of Mr. Gbadamosi’s first name, and the last name
“Gbadamosi” is identical to all other documents in the record containing his signature with his

3 Mr, Gbadamosi’s employment records from the hospital were obtained by the Board and submitted into evidence.

7

 
 

full first and last names. Second, and more significantly, the initial “A.” in this document is
identical to other documents in the record that contain only Mr. Gbadamosi’s initials “A.G.” For
example, the hospital’s “Consent, Release & Verification Form” was initialed by Mr. Gbadamosi
on August 2, 2015, and the initial “A.” on that form js identical to the initial “A.” on the January
4, 2017 Report. Another hospital form entitled “Statement of Applicant and Release of
Information” was also initialed multiple times by Mr. Gbadamosi on September 13, 2016, and
the initial “A.” is identical to the initial “A.” on the January 4, 2017 Report. Mr, Gbadamosi’s
exception to Finding of Fact 21 is denied.

In Finding of Fact 25, the ALJ found that Mr. Gbadamosi’s “NO” answer to Question II.o
of his 2017 Renewal Application was false because he did not disclose his resignation in lieu of
termination from the hospital. That question asked whether the applicant had voluntarily
resigned or terminated a contract from any hospital while under investigation for disciplinary
reasons. On the 2017 Renewal Application, Mr. Gbadamosi further affirmed that the information
he provided was true and correct.

In his exceptions, Mr. Gbadamosi contends that the ALJ’s analysis regarding signatures
and irregularities on the hospital documents contradicts her conclusions. The employment
records from the hospital, however, consistently indicate that Mr, Gbadamosi resigned from his
position in lieu of termination. As a reason for his separation of employment, his personnel
action form stated that he “resign[ed] in lieu of discharge”, and the “Maryland Unemployment
Insurance Request for Separation Information” form confirmed that Mr. Gbadamosi “quit in lieu
of discharge,” with comments indicating “numerous patient and safety complaints.” Emails
between hospital staff also confirmed that Mr. Gbadamosi “resigned before they could terminate

»

him.

 
 

 

Based on the investigation of complaints by the hospital, and the circumstances of Mr.
Gbadamosi’s resignation, the ALJ therefore correctly determined that he falsely answered
Question Io of his 2017 Renewal Application to the Board. Mr. Gbadamosi’s exception to
Finding of Fact 25 is denied.

Mr. Gbadamosi also excepts generally to the ALJ's proposed conclusions of law. In
essence, he rehashes his testimonial claims that the ALJ rejected at the evidentiary hearing,
because she found his testimony lacking in credibility. The ALJ’s conclusions were correctly
based on the findings established by the evidence presented by the State at the evidentiary
hearing. Mr, Gbadamosi intended his “NO” answers to fully represent his responses to the Board
and the hospital at which he sought employment. His answers conveyed the impression of an
unblemished history, an impression very much at odds with his criminal and employment
background. His answers were not only false, but willfully made in order to deceive the Board
and employers regarding his criminal history and prior termination of employment. See Proposed
Decision, pp. 18, 20, There is also no doubt about the effect of Mr. Gbadamosi’s false
representations. Because of his deception, the Board and his employers logically but incorrectly
assumed that there was no problematic background information that would raise concerns about
his qualifications. Neither the Board nor the hospital had any knowledge of his criminal history.
Nor did the hospital know about Mr. Gbadamosi’s termination from prior employment or the
reason for the termination. Relying on his false application responses, the Board reinstated his
license in 2014 and renewed his license in 2017. The hospital granted his application for
privileges in 2015. The panel rejects Mr. Gbadamosi’s self-exonerating narrative and denies

these exceptions.

 
 

Mr. Gbadamosi further excepts to the ALJ’s recommended sanction of a one-year
suspension and the imposition of a $25,000.00 civil fine as too high in contrast to sanctions in
similar Board cases, Contrary to Mr. Gbadamosi’s contentions, the cases he cites do not involve
similarly situated individuals, Rather, they involve consent orders negotiated by the parties to
resolve pending charges, single instances of misrepresentation regarding the completion of
continuing medical education credits, a single instance of deception based on failure to disclose a
criminal conviction from 1988, and the unlicensed practice of medicine. Mr. Gbadamosi’s
violations, however, involved numerous instances of deception and misrepresentation concerning
problematic events that occurred in recent years. He deliberately and repeatedly provided false
answers on multiple applications, omitted the unflattering truth about his criminal and

“employment history in an effort to hide his past, committed various factually discrete offenses
that formed the basis of the charges against him, and took no responsibility for his willful
misrepresentations before the ALJ or the panel.

The panel does not find credible that Mr. Gbadamosi was unaware of the requirement to
disclose his criminal conviction on licensure and hospital credentialing applications, or that he
had no knowledge of complaints about his work and behavior and an ongoing hospital
investigation. The panel denies his exception and rejects his continuing efforts to minimize his
violations,

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on Disciplinary Panel B’s findings of fact and discussion of Mr. Gbadamosi’s
exceptions, as set forth above, the Panel concludes that Mr. Gbadamosi is guilty of fraudulently
or deceptively obtaining a license, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(1); unprofessional

conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 15 -314(a)(3)(ii); and willfully
