Ahmed Gbadamosi, P.A.-C.

Date: | 2/04/2020

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice as a Physician Assistant
Ahmed Gbadamosi, P.A.-C.
License Number: C04261
Case Number: 2220-0122B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Oce.”) §15-312 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER
my license to practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland, License
Number C04261, effective immediately. 1 understand that upon surrender of my
license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or
without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in
practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 15-101 et seq. and
other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and
upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER
of Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”’).

1 acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
September 8, 2020, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health
Oce. § 15-314(a)(1), (3)(ii), (33) & (36). Specifically, Panel B alleged that I failed
to disclose on my 2019 License Renewal Application that I had criminal charges
pending against me. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice as a physician assistant in the State of
 

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Ahmed Gbadamosi, P.A.-C.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the
charges will be treated as if proven.

l understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all

other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards, and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other
state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter
of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that
Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant
reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and
reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition for

reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an
individual whose license has been revoked.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to

 
 

 

20. On October 8, 2019, the Board notified the Respondent via email to both email
addresses the Respondent supplied to the Board on his 2019 Renewal Application that it
had not received the explanation requested in the August 30, 2019 letter. The email
requested a response within seven days and warned that failure to respond might result in
the issuance of a subpoena. The Respondent failed to respond.
21. On October 24, 2019, the Board issued a subpoena, requiring the Respondent to
provide a written response by 11:00 a.m. on November 7, 2019, and warned that failure
to obey the subpoena might result in a disciplinary charge for failure to cooperate. The
Respondent failed to respond.

GROUNDS FOR DISCIPLINE

The Respondent’s conduct as outlined above constitute violations of the Act
cited above, specifically:

The Respondent’s false attestation to question (i) of the Character and Fitness
section of the 2019 Renewal Application constitutes: fraudulently or deceptively
obtaining or attempting to obtain a license for the applicant or licensee or for another, in
violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(1); unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(3)(ii); and willfully making a false
representation when seeking or making application for licensure or any other application
related to the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(36).

The Respondent’s failure to respond to the Board’s written notices via U.S.
mail and email and his failure to comply with the October 24, 2019 subpoena, as

described above, constitute: unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in

 
 

violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(3)(ii); and failure to cooperate with a lawful
investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 15-3 14(a)(33).

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, the Board or a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there
are grounds for action under the above-cited provisions of law and/or terms of the
Consent Order, the Board or disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice as a physician assistant in Maryland. The Board or
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,

impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION
CONFERENCE, PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

A conference before Disciplinary Panel B, sitting as the Disciplinary Committee
for Case Resolution (“DCCR”), in this matter is scheduled for Wednesday, November
18, 2020 at 9:00 a.m., at the Board’s office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215. The Respondent must confirm in writing his intention to attend the
DCCR. The Respondent should send written confirmation of his intention to participate
in the DCCR to: Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, Maryland State Board of
Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature

and purpose of the DCCR is described in the attached letter to the Respondent.

 
If the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a pre-hearing conference and a
hearing in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101
Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in

accordance with Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.

 

(2014 Repl. Vol. and 2019 Supp.).

Respectfully submitted,

BRIAN FROSH
ATTORNEY GENERAL

{Ytovs Ya G~
Date Christopher Anderson

Assistant Attorney General

Office of the Attorney General

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation
Division

Suite 201, 300 West Preston Street

Baltimore, Maryland 21201

(410) 767-5057
christopher.anderson@maryland.gov
 

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Ahmed Gbadamosi, P.A.-C.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

be represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to
practice as a physician assistant in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel
B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. 1 acknowledge that I understand and

comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender.
1 make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

Ahmed Gbadamosi, P.A.-C.

 

NOTARY

sTATE OF MWocy\e~d
CITY/COUNTY OF Brince Geer ye’s Couns

1 HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 22_ day of NOV. , 2020

before me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared
Ahmed Gbadamosi, P.A.-C., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of
perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.!

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

  

My commission expires: 12 -O& -20 2>

' During the current State of Emergency, and in compliance with the Governor’s emergency orders,
notarization may be accomplished remotely.

 
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Ahmed Gbadamosi, P.A.-C.

Letter of Surrender
Page 4

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this HY day of Decéwd.e92020,
I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Ahmed Gbadamosi,
P.A.-C.’s license to practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Execyfive Dinealh
Maryland Board of Physicians

 

 
Attachment 1
 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

AHMED GBADAMOSI, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: C04261 [SUSPENDED] * Case Number: 2220-0122B

* * * x * * * * * * * * *

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS ACT

 

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”), hereby charges AHMED GBADAMOSI, PA-C (the “Respondent”), License
Number C04261 [SUSPENDED], under the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 15-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.
& 2019 Supp.).

Specifically, Panel B charges that the Respondent has violated the following
provisions of law.

Health Oce. § 15-314. Reprimand, probation, suspension, revocation

(a) Grounds. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this

subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the

quorum, may reprimand any physician assistant, place any physician

assistant on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the physician
assistant:

(1) Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to obtain a
license for the applicant or licensee or for another;

(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by
the Board or a disciplinary panel; [and]
 

(36) Willfully makes a false representation when seeking or
making application for licensure or any other application
related to the practice of medicine[.]

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

Panel B bases its charges on the following facts that the Board has cause to believe

are true.

Licensure and Disciplinary Background

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice as a physician assistant in
Maryland on June 29, 2010, under License Number C04261. The Respondent
continuously held a valid license until June 30, 2013, when it expired. He was granted
reinstatement on October 28, 2014.

2. On or about May 15, 2018, Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the
Act, specifically: Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(1), (3) & (36).

3, On or about August 29, 2019, a disciplinary panel of the Board issued a Final
Order in the case, in which it concluded that the Respondent had indeed committed the
violations he was charged with, and imposed a sanction including a one-year period of
suspension and a civil penalty in the amount of $5000.

4, The panel found that the Respondent had supplied multiple false answers over the
course of several years to questions appearing on three Board applications, and one
additional application for hospital privileges, in order to conceal a history of employment
‘ The allegations set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the Panel's action.

They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence, either
documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with these charges.

 
discipline and criminal conduct. The Board concluded that the Respondent had
committed “numerous instances of deception and misrepresentation concerning
problematic events...and took no responsibility for his willful misrepresentations.”

5. The Respondent’s license has been suspended since the effective date of the Final
Order, August 29, 2019.

Current Investigation

6. During the pendency of the Respondent’s previous disciplinary case, the
Respondent’s license became due for renewal.

7. On or about June 12, 2019, the Respondent filed a renewal application with the
Board (the “2019 Renewal Application”).

8. On the 2019 Renewal Application, the Respondent answered “Yes” to question (c)
of the Character and Fitness section of the application, which asked: “Has any licensing
or disciplinary board in any jurisdiction...filed any complaints or charges against you or
investigated you for any reason?” In explanation, he stated wrote: “Maryland board but
no decision has been made.”

9, The Respondent answered “No” to all other Character and Fitness questions,
including question (i), which asked: “Are there any charges pending against you in any
court of law, are you currently under arrest, released pending trial with or without bond,
or is there an outstanding warrant for you arrest?”

10. The Respondent electronically signed his name at the conclusion of the 2019

Renewal Application under the affirmation:

 
 

] affirm that I have personally reviewed all responses to the items in this
application and that the information | have given is true and correct to the
best of my knowledge, information, and belief. 1 understand that providing
false, misleading, or incomplete information may result in disciplinary
action by the Maryland Board of Physicians (the Board).
11. During the course of evaluating the Respondent’s renewal application, a criminal
history records check was performed. Based on the results, the Board began an
investigation.
12, In furtherance of the investigation, the Board’s investigator obtained relevant
court records. The records indicate that the Respondent falsely answered question (i)
shown above. He did so despite the fact that at the time he submitted the 2019 Renewal
Application, he was facing Board disciplinary charges for falsifying information on
multiple previous applications.
The Respondent’s Most Recent Criminal History
13. Contrary to the Respondent’s answers to the 2019 Renewal Application’s
Character and Fitness questions, the court records obtained by the Board’s investigator

indicate that he was facing numerous criminal charges at the time he submitted his 2019

Renewal Application. The charges, which originated from two discrete incidents, are

described below.

February 17, 2019 Incident

14. On or about February 17, 2019, in the District Court of Maryland for Prince
George’s County, the Respondent was charged with: (1) driving vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol; (2) driving vehicle while impaired by alcohol; (3) reckless driving

vehicle in wanton and willful disregard for safety or persons and property; (4) negligent

 
 

driving vehicle in careless and imprudent manner endangering property, life and person;
(5) stopping vehicle on crosswalk; (6) driver failure to stop at stop sign line; and (7)
failure to display registration card upon demand by police officer.

15. On or about December 6, 2019, in case number CJ191160, in the Circuit Court of
Maryland for Prince George’s County, the Respondent pleaded guilty to and was
convicted of: (1) reckless driving; and (2) stopping his vehicle on a crosswalk.

16. Based on these convictions, the Respondent was sentenced to: (1) pay a fine of
$570; and (2) pay a fine of $500 (suspended). The remaining five counts were disposed
of by nolle prosequi.

May 6, 2019 Incident

17. On or about May 6, 2019, the Respondent was charged in the District Court of
Maryland for Prince George’s County in case number 1E00645338 with the following
four criminal charges: trespass to private property; disorderly conduct;
resisting/interfering with arrest; and failure to obey reasonable and lawful order by a
police officer.

18. On or about December 20, 2019, the charges were disposed by nolle prosequi.
Respondent’s Failure to Cooperate with the Board’s Investigation

19. On or about August 30, 2019, the Board notified the Respondent via letter to his
address of record that the Board was initiating an investigation based on his false answers
on the 2019 Renewal Application. The letter requested an explanation within ten business

days. The Respondent failed to respond.

 
