 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MICHEEL KWAKYE, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent. * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License No. C04243 * — Case No. 7719-0065
* * * * ek * * * x * * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On January 29, 2019, Micheel Kwakye, PA-C entered into a Consent Order with
Disciplinary Panel A (‘Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”). One
of the conditions of the Consent Order required Ms. Kwakye to complete a Panel-approved ethics
course within six months of the Consent Order. On November 13, 2020, Panel A issued a Violation
of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause, charging Ms. Kwakye with failure to complete the
Panel-approved ethics course, in violation of the January 29, 2019 Consent Order. On December
2, 2020, Panel A held a show cause hearing where Ms. Kwakye had the opportunity to argue why
her license should not be subject to further discipline.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Background and Disciplinary Charges

On August 30, 2019, Panel A charged Ms. Kwakye based on the reciprocal discipline
imposed by the Texas Board for failing to meet the standards of care for pain management and her
failure to disclose on her 2017 license renewal application that she had been disciplined by the
Texas Board. Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(1), (3)(ii), (21), and (36).
January 29, 2019 Consent Order

To resolve the disciplinary charges against her, Ms. Kwakye agreed to enter into a Consent
Order with Panel A, wherein Panel A concluded that Ms. Kwakye fraudulently or deceptively

obtained or attempted to obtain a license, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(1), was guilty of
 

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(3)\(ii),
was disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority for an act that would be grounds for
disciplinary action in Maryland, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(21), and willfully made a
false representation when seeking or making application for licensure, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 15-314(a)(36). Panel A imposed a reprimand, prohibited her from prescribing and administering
Controlled Dangerous Substances until permitted to do so by the Texas Board, placed her on
probation for a minimum of two years, subject to certain terms and conditions, including
requirements that she pay a civil fine of $5,000.00 and take a Panel-approved course in ethics
within six months of the date of the Consent Order.

The Consent Order further stated:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before
a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine
upon the Respondentf. ]

Violation of January 29, 2019 Consent Order
On January 31, 2019, Board staff sent a letter with the Board-approved course list to Ms.
Kwakye. On March 12, 2019, Ms. Kwakye submitted documentation of CME credits that she

earned in Texas, but the CMEs were not on the Board-approved course list and were not approved
 

 

by the Board. On March 14, 2019, Board staff notified Ms. Kwakye that the CMEs were not
approved and sent her another copy of the Board-approved course list.

On May 31, 2019, Board staff sent Ms. Kwakye a letter reminding her that the ethics course
was required to be completed by July 29, 2019. On June 5, 2019, Board staff received
correspondence from Ms. Kwakye that she planned to take the PBI Medical Ethics and
Professionalism course. Board staff notified Ms. Kwakye that the course was approved and that
there was an upcoming session on June 21-22, 2019 in California. On June 25, 2019, Board staff
received notification from Ms. Kwakye that she was unable to take the course because her daughter
was born earlier than expected on June 20, 2019. Ms. Kwakye informed the Board that she planned
on taking another session of the PB1 Medical Ethics course and the Board granted an extension
until November 3, 2019 for Ms. Kwakye to complete the course. In the letter granting the
extension, Board staff asked Ms. Kwakye to provide documentation that she had enrolled in the
course and Ms. Kwakye was informed that her failure to complete the course by November 3, 2019
may constitute a violation of the Consent Order. Ms. Kwakye did not provide documentation that
she enrolled in the course and Board staff verified that Ms. Kwakye did not attend the ethics course.

On November 4, 2019, Board staff sent a letter to Ms. Kwakye requesting a response to
her failure to complete the ethics course by the extended due date of November 3, 2019. Ms.
Kwakye responded and explained that she failed to take the course because she was caring for her
two ill children. She did not state that she would take another course to satisfy the requirement or
provide documentation that she had enrolled in a different course that would satisfy the
requirements of the Consent Order. On December 4, 2019, Panel A voted to issue a Notice to

Show Cause to Ms. Kwakye.
 

Show Cause Hearing ~ December 2, 2020

On November 13, 2020, Panel A sent Ms. Kwakye a Violation of Consent Order and Notice
of Show Cause Hearing based on this alleged violation by first class mail to her address of record.
The Notice was not returned as undeliverable. The Violation of Consent Order and Notice of
Show Cause Hearing notified Ms. Kwakye that a show cause hearing was scheduled for December
2, 2020. Prior to the hearing, Board staff sent Ms. Kwakye several emails notifying Ms. Kwakye
that the hearing would be conducted by the Zoom teleconference platform and inviting Ms.
Kwakye to participate in test calls. Board staff also sent Ms. Kwakye three emails with the Zoom
conference information for the hearing scheduled for December 2, 2020 at 1:00 pm. The emails
instructed Ms. Kwakye to sign in 10 to 15 minutes prior to the scheduled time of the hearing.
Board staff sent a final email on December 2, 2020 at 12:55 pm stating “please sign in now for
your scheduled hearing.” Ms, Kwakye did not participate in any of the test calls or respond to any
of the emails from Board staff.

On December 2, 2020, at 2:09 pm, Panel A commenced the show cause hearing. The
administrative prosecutor assigned to the case appeared and represented the State. Ms. Kwakye
did not attend the hearing, nor did counsel appear on her behalf. The Board received no request
for postponement or communications from Ms. Kwakye-on the day of the hearing or in the days
leading up to the hearing. The administrative prosecutor presented the case against Ms. Kwakye
regarding her violation of the January 29, 2019 Consent Order for failing to complete the required
ethics course. The State recommended that the Panel order the revocation of Ms. Kwakye’s license

to practice as a Physician Assistant in the State of Maryland.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Panel A concludes that Ms. Kwakye violated the terms and conditions of the January 29,
2019 Consent Order by failing to complete the required ethics course.

ORDER

It is, on an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the license of Micheel Kwakye, PA-C, license number C04243, to
practice as a Physician Assistant in the State of Maryland, is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§

1-607 and 14-411.1, and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b),

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Exécu ive\Director C /
Maryland State Board of Physicians zs

 

 
