 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JENNIFER S. CECIL, P.A.-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number C04321 * Case Number 7716-0016

HRI KKK RRR KK RRR KR RR RK I KKK KKK RR RE KKK EKER

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On September 10, 2015, Jennifer Cecil, P.A.-C, entered into a Consent Order with
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
wherein she agreed to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and
comply with all of the MPRP’s recommendations. Ms. Cecil enrolled in the MPRP, but was
discharged from the program for cause, on October 27, 2015, due to her unwillingness to follow
the MPRP’s recommendations.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Background

On or about September 22, 2014, the Board received notification that Ms. Cecil was
terminated from her employment as a physician assistant for writing fraudulent prescriptions.
The Board opened an investigation into the allegations. During the course of the investigation,
the Board discovered that Ms. Cecil wrote prescriptions for controlled dangerous substances
(CDS) for individuals who were not patients of her place of employment. The prescriptions were
filled at several pharmacies and Ms. Cecil continued to prescribe CDS to individuals who were
not patients of the practice after she was terminated.

As a result of the Board’s investigation, on June 11, 2015, Panel B summarily suspended
Ms. Cecil’s license to practice as a physician assistant. A post-deprivation hearing was held on

June 24, 2015 and Panel B continued the summary suspension. On July 1, 2015, Panel B
 

charged Ms. Cecil with violating several grounds of the Maryland Physician Assistants Act: Md.
Code Health Occ. §15-314(a)(1) (fraudulently or deceptively obtains a license); (2) (fraudulently
or deceptively uses a license); (3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine); (11)
(willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of medicine); (27) (prescribes
drugs for illegal or illegitimate purposes); and (36) (willfully makes a false representation when
seeking or making application for licensure).

On September 10, 2015, Ms. Cecil entered into a Consent Order with Panel B to resolve
the July 1, 2015 charges.
Consent Order

In the Consent Order, Panel B concluded that Ms. Cecil violated all of the grounds with-
which she was charged. Panel B suspended Ms. Cecil’s physician assistant license for a
minimum period of eighteen months, retroactive to June 11, 2015, the date of the summary
suspension.’ Under the terms of the Consent Order, Ms. Cecil agreed that her license would
remain suspended until she fully and satisfactorily complied with several conditions, including
the requirement that she enroll in the MPRP and comply with all of the MPRP’s
recommendations.

The Consent Order also:

ORDERED that if the Respondent fails to comply with any of the terms or

conditions of probation, suspension, or this Consent Order, the Board or

Disciplinary Panel, in its discretion, after notice and an opportunity for a show

cause hearing before the Board or Disciplinary Panel if there is no genuine

dispute as to a material fact or an evidentiary hearing at the Office of

Administrative Hearings, may impose additional sanctions authorized under the

Medical Physician Assistants Act, including a reprimand, suspension, an

additional period of probation, revocation, and/or a monetary fine[.]

Ms. Cecil agreed and accepted to be bound by the Consent Order and its terms and conditions.

' The summary suspension was terminated as moot based on the resolution of the charges and the imposition of an
18-month suspension.
 

Violation of the Consent Order

In accordance with the Consent Order, Ms. Cecil enrolled in the MPRP on September 24,
2015. Ms. Cecil signed a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement wherein she agreed to follow all
treatment recommendations made by the MPRP. On October 8, 2015, Ms. Cecil met with the
MPRP to discuss the clinical team’s recommendations for treatment. On October 15, 2015, Ms.
Cecil informed the MPRP that she was unwilling to follow the treatment recommendations made
by the full clinical team and that she would not be participating with the MPRP. On October 27,
2015, the MPRP discharged Ms. Cecil from the program for cause due to Ms. Cecil’s
unwillingness to follow the program’s recommendations.
Show Cause Hearing

On March 3, 2016, the State issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show
Cause alleging a violation of the Consent Order based on Ms. Cecil’s failure to comply with the
MPRP’s recommendations. On April 27, 2016, Ms. Cecil appeared at a Show Cause hearing
before Panel B. At the hearing, Ms. Cecil conceded that she did not comply with the MPRP’s
treatment recommendations and that she violated the September 10, 2015 Consent Order. She
asked the Board to refrain from revoking her license and to consider terminating her suspension
after nine months, pending successful completion of the MPRP’s recommendations. The State
advocated for the revocation of Ms. Cecil’s license based on the undisputed violation of the
Consent Order.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Panel B concludes that Ms. Cecil violated the terms and conditions of the September 10,

2015 Consent Order by failing to comply with the MPRP’s recommendations. Pursuant to the
 

terms of the Consent Order, the panel is authorized to impose additional sanctions on Ms. Cecil’s
license, including revocation.
ORDER

On an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel B, it is hereby

ORDERED that Ms. Cecil’s license to practice as a physician assistant in Maryland
(License Number C04321) is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the September 10, 2015 Consent Order is
hereby terminated as moot based upon the revocation; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.

§§ 4-101 et seq.

vig 7, ZOl¢

Date

 

 
