IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
MARIA SHESIUK, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: C04925 * Case Number: 2218-0028B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) voted to summarily suspend the license of MARIA SHESIUK, PA-C (the
“Respondent”), License Number C04925, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Govt § 10-
226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.) concluding that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

Panel B also voted to charge the Respondent under the Maryland Physician
Assistants Act (the "Act"), Md. Code Ann., Heath Occ. Il §§ 15-314(a): (4) Is
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; and (7) Habitually is intoxicated
(2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.).

Prior to the issuance of an Order of Summary Suspension and charges, the
Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of Procedural
Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and Notary. This
Consent Order supersedes the Consent Order dated December 14, 2017.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel B makes the following Findings of Fact:
IL. BACKGROUND/LICENSING INFORMATION

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to
practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially
licensed as a physician assistant in Maryland on October 18, 2012, under License
Number C04925. The latest license issued to the Respondent was given the expiration
date of June 30, 2019.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent practiced as a licensed
physician assistant at two health care facilities in Maryland.
I. THE COMPLAINT

3. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a
complaint, dated June 17, 2017, from a professional colleague of the Respondent who
reported that the Respondent had relapsed due to a medical condition that had been in
remission and admitted to him/her that she had practiced as a physician assistant while
“under the influence.”
lll. © BOARD INVESTIGATION

4. As part of its investigation, Board staff obtained recent treatment records
that addressed the Respondent's medical condition and interviewed the Respondent
and her professional colleagues.

5. The Board's investigation determined that, at this time, the Respondent
has an active medical condition that compromises her ability to provide safe and

competent medical care to patients.’
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing facts, Disciplinary Panel B concludes that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.).

Panel B also concludes that the Respondent violated the following provisions of
the Maryland Physician Assistants Act: Health Occ. Il § 15-314(a): (4), Is professionally,
physically, or mentally incompetent; and (7) Habitually is intoxicated.

ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that this Consent Order supersedes the Consent Order, dated
December 14, 2017; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent's license to practice as a physician assistant in
Maryland is SUSPENDED, subject to the following terms and conditions:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”). Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to
schedule an initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, the
Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and
comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant

Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply

' For confidentiality reasons, all specific references to medical information or medical conditions will not
be disclosed in this Order. The Respondent is aware of the medical information and medical conditions
referenced herein.
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by
MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested or required by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board, including disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP.
The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol treatment records;

3. The Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that any treatment
provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and to the Board at least once every
three (3) months regarding her attendance, progress, payment of fees, and
recommendations as to the continuation, frequency, and/or termination of treatment.
The Respondent shall sign any consent forms required to authorize Panel B and the
MPRP to receive written reports from her treating mental health and health
professionals or any treatment providers.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if MPRP finds that the Respondent is safe
to return to practice as a physician assistant and if the Respondent has complied with
the conditions above, the Respondent may petition Panel B to terminate the suspension

of the Respondent's license. If Panel B determines that it is safe for the Respondent to
return to practice, the suspension shall be terminated, and Panel B may impose any
conditions and terms it deems appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice as a
physician assistant, including, but not limited to, probation; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before the Board or a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that if, after the appropriate hearing, the Board or a disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this
Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place
the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or
revoke the Respondent's license to practice as a physician assistant in Maryland. The
Board or a disciplinary panel a disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the
sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is
further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Physician
Assistants Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 15-101 ef seg., and all laws and
regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling

the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014 Vol. & 2017 Supp.)

    

o2loe/2ols
Date Christine A. Farrell
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
CONSENT

|, Maria Shesiuk, PA-C, acknowledge that | was represented by counsel before
entering this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the purpose of resolving the
issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent
Order and its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority
and jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this

Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of a

disciplinary panel of the Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.
| sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the

language, meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

   

Respondent

Read and approved:

Brian R. Bregmen, Esquire
Counsel for Ms. Shesiuk

NOTARY

STATE oF _/14 pig ban d
CITY/COUNTY OF Pu lbnone

. g
| HISEBY CERTIFY that on this _/ day of 2017, before
me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Maria
Shesiuk, PA-C, and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent

Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

  

SABREYA N. SMITH
Notary Public

 
