 

Tasha M. Anderson

pa: Tanvary 2, 20¢9

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Tasha M. Anderson, PA-C

License Number: C05296

Case Numbers: 2218-0243 and 7718-0066

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§15-312 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland, License Number C05296,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act’’), Health Occ.
§§ 15-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
October 16, 2017, Panel B issued charges entitled, Violation of Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation and Charges Under the Maryland Physician
Assistants Act, alleging that I violated the terms of a previous Board Order by failing to
comply with the requirements of the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(MPRP). I resolved these disciplinary charges through entering into a Consent Order with
Panel B, dated December 14, 2017 (the “Consent Order”), in which Panel B found that I
violated Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(3)(@i) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine) and the terms and conditions of my probation. The Consent Order suspended
my license to practice medicine for a minimum six (6) months and required that I remain
enrolled in MPRP and abide by its referrals, rules, and requirements. A copy of the Consent
Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Tasha M. Anderson, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I acknowledge that I violated the terms of the Consent Order by practicing as a
physician assistant while my license was suspended. Additionally, I acknowledge that I
submitted a positive toxicology screen while enrolled in MPRP, in violation of my MPRP
participation agreement and the Consent Order. I acknowledge that the Consent Order
remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance
of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Order
as long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution for violating the Consent Order. I
acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be able to prove that
I violated the Consent Order by a preponderance of the evidence.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest any charges related to my violation of the Consent Order. In waiving
my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at
the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to a circuit court.

J understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in
any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose terms
and conditions in conformity with or in addition to those set forth in the Consent Order. I
further understand that if ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or
its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked. | also
understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my
professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel B or
its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
 

 

Suspension and Imposing Probation dated April 1, 2016; and with violating the following
provision of the Maryland Physician Assistants Act: Health Occ. Il § 15-314(a)(3), Is
guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent's license to practice as a physician assistant in
Maryland is SUSPENDED for a minimum period of SIX (6) MONTHS, subject to the
following terms and conditions:

1. The Respondent shall continue her enrollment in the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP”). The Respondent shall be entered into a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP.
The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested or required by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board, including disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP.
The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the

Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol treatment records;

3. The Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that any treatment
provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and to the Board at least once every
three (3) months regarding her attendance, progress, payment of fees, and
recommendations as to the continuation, frequency, and/or termination of treatment.
The Respondent shall sign any consent forms required to authorize Panel B and the
MPRP to receive written reports from her treating mental health and health
professionals or any treatment providers.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, after six (6) months, if MPRP finds that
the Respondent is safe to return to practice as a physician assistant and if the
Respondent has complied with the conditions above, the Respondent may petition
Panel B to terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s license. lf Panel B
determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to practice, the suspension shall
be terminated, and Panel B may impose any conditions and terms it deems appropriate
on the Respondent's return to practice as a physician assistant, including, but not
limited to, probation; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing

shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If
 

 

 

there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before the Board or a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that if, after the appropriate hearing, the Board or a disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this
Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place
the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or
revoke the Respondent's license to practice as a physician assistant in Maryland. The
Board or a disciplinary panel a disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the
sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is
further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Physician
Assistants Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 15-101 ef seq., and all laws and
regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014 Vol. & 2017 Supp.)
 

 
    

j2.f¥/2017

Date’ Christine A. Farrelly

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
CONSENT
|, Tasha M. Anderson, PA-C, acknowledge that | was represented by counsel
before entering this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the purpose of resolving
the issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing
Consent Order and its conditions.
| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority
and jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this
Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of a
disciplinary panel of the Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.
| sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms of the Consent Order.
Signature on F ile

— Libis —_ .
Date / / Tasha M. Anderson, PA-C

Respondent

11
Read and approved:

   

Caroly Jacobs, Es uir
Counsel for Ms. Anderson

NOTARY

STATE OF M ary lank

CITYICOUNTY oF Battmore-

| HISEBY CERTIFY that on this 14 day of Crcemb<-~2017, before me, a
Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Tasha M.
Anderson, PA-C, and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal. |

 
  

a
Notary Public

My Commission expires: qd 30 f 2

12
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Tasha M. Anderson, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of
Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours.

Signature on F ile

Tasha M. Anderson, PA-C

NOTARY

STATE OF Meghna

CITY/COUNTY OF / at ;
™ - Hh

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this /Y day of _| y woottyy , 2018 before me,

a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Tasha M. Anderson,

PA-C, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Letter of Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

 

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 
  

Divyesh Patel
NOTARY PUBLIC MARYLAND
Baltimore County
Commission Expires + 4/13/2022

My commission expires:

\
Notary Public

ACCEPTANCE

20147
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this Zretday of \ ) ANVA/Y-; WE, (a)
I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Tasha M. Anderson, PA-C’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of
her license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

Vue.

     

Christine A. Farrelly, ive Director }~

Maryland Board of Physicians
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE ATTACHMENT

TASHA M. ANDERSON, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: C05296 * Case Number: 7716-0082B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

On October 16, 2017, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”), pursuant to a Violation of Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation and Charges Under the Maryland Physician
Assistants Act (the “Violation”), charged TASHA M. ANDERSON, PA-C, (the
“Respondent’), License Number C05296, with violating the probationary conditions
imposed under the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation (the
“Order’), dated April 1, 2016; and with violating the Maryland Physician Assistants Act
(the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ. Il’) §§ 15-101 ef seq. (2014
Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.). Pursuant to the Order, the Respondent was placed on
probation for a minimum period of five years.

In the Violation, Panel B charged the Respondent with violating the following
probationary conditions of the Order:

Condition No. Two (2)

Ms. Anderson shall remain in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (“MPRP”) and continue in a Board-monitored Rehabilitation

Agreement for the length of time recommended by the MPRP, to the

extent that the duration of Ms. Anderson’s Rehabilitation Agreement with

the MPRP parallels the probationary period. Ms. Anderson shall fully,
timely, and satisfactorily cooperate and comply with all MPRP
recommendations and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of any Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Rehabilitation
Plan(s) entered into with the MPRP, any evaluations and treatment
recommended by the MPRP, complete abstinence, random monitored
toxicology screens as required by the MPRP, self-help fellowship
meetings and in-patient substance abuse treatment if recommended by
the MPRP;

Condition No. Five (5)
For the entire duration of the probationary period, Ms. Anderson shall
abstain completely from the ingestion of alcohol, CDS, any narcotics,
cocaine, or other mood-altering substances unless she is a bona fide
patient of a license health care provider who has been provided a copy of
this order and any prior orders;

Condition No. Six (6)
The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Physician Assistants Act

and all laws, statutes and regulations pertaining to the practice of being a
PAL] | .

Panel B also charged the Respondent with violating the following provision of the

Act under Health Occ. Il § 15-314:

(a) Grounds. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum, may reprimand any physician assistant, place any
physician assistant on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if
the physician assistant:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine{.]
After the Violation was issued, the Board came into the receipt of information,
after which Panel B voted to summarily suspend the Respondent's license to practice
as a physician assistant pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Govt § 10-226(c)(2)(i) (2014

Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
 

 

 

 

imperatively required emergency action. Panel B also voted to amend the Violation to
charge the Respondent with additional violations of the Order and the Act.

Prior to the issuance of an Order of Summary Suspension and amended
Violation, the Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting
of Procedural Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and
Notary.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel B makes the following Findings of Fact:

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice as a physician
assistant in Maryland on January 2, 2014, under License Number C05296. The
Respondent's latest license was given the expiration date of June 30, 2019.

2. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent under Case
Number 2015-0771B after receiving a Mandated 10-Day Report, dated April 27, 2015,
from a health care facility (the “Facility”)' that is located in Maryland. The Facility
reported that it investigated the Respondent's workplace actions and determined that
she “was writing prescriptions for herself and was using another provider's log on to
write additional prescriptions for herself.” The Facility reported that after conducting its
investigation, it terminated her employment, effective April 27, 2015, and terminated her
privileges at the Facility and at another affiliated health care facility.

3. The Facility submitted a follow-up report, dated April 30, 2015, in which it

reported that it performed a drug test on the Respondent prior to her termination, which

was “positive.”

' For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities will not be disclosed in this document.
The Respondent is aware of all health care facilities referenced herein.

3
4. After considering this information, Panel B issued an Order for Summary
Suspension, dated August 11, 2015, in which it summarily suspended the Respondent's
physician assistant’s license pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov't Il § 10-226(c)(2),

concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively required emergency

action.

5. On August 11, 2015, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against the
Respondent under Case Number 2015-0771B, alleging, inter alia, that

the Respondent, while working in her capacity as a physician
assistant at [the Facility], electronically wrote approximately 17
prescriptions in the names of various staff providers at [the Facility]
for Percocet 5/APAP 325 mg (an opioid medication and Schedule II
controlled dangerous substance), without their authorization,
permission or consent, and filled the prescriptions at area
pharmacies. The Respondent wrote the prescriptions, which were
typically for 60 pills each, at approximately two-week intervals, from
October 2014, to April 2015. The Respondent was not a patient or
under the care of any of the providers in whose names she wrote
the prescriptions.

6. Panel B's disciplinary charges alleged that the Respondent's actions
constituted violations of the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. II § 15-
314(a):

(2) Fraudulently or deceptively uses a license;

(3) Is guilty of: (ii) unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine;

(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or
controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the
Criminal Law Article; [and]

(11) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice
of medicine[.]
7. On August 26, 2015, Panel B conducted a show cause hearing in which it
permitted the Respondent to show cause as to why the suspension it issued in its Order
for Summary Suspension should not be continued. After hearing arguments from the
parties, the Board continued the summary suspension of her license.

8. The Respondent resolved Panel B’s disciplinary charges through a
Consent Order, dated December 3, 2015. In the Consent Order, Panel B found that the
Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. Il § 15-
314(a): (2), Fraudulently or deceptively uses a license; (3), Is guilty of: (ii)
Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (8), Is addicted to, or habitually
abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the
Criminal Law Article; and (11), Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the
practice of medicine.

9. Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel B terminated the Order for
Summary Suspension, dated August 11, 2015, and suspended the Respondent's
physician assistant’s license until April 1, 2016, subject to certain conditions, including
but not limited to, her enrollment in the MPRP. Panel B also ordered that after the
conclusion of the suspension, it would place her on probation for five years, subject to a
series of probationary terms and conditions.

10. On April 1, 2016, Panel B issued the Order, in which it terminated the
suspension it imposed under its December 3, 2015, Consent Order. Panel B placed the
Respondent on probation for five years, subject to a series of probationary terms and
conditions, which included the following:

Condition No. Two (2)
11.
test, the Respondent tested positive for a substance that was prohibited under the
express terms of the Order and prohibited under the Participation Rehabilitation
Agreement (“PRA”) she entered into with MPRP.2 The Respondent reportedly informed

MPRP that the positive test result may have occurred due to her accidental ingestion of

Ms. Anderson shall remain in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP”) and continue in a Board-
monitored Rehabilitation Agreement for the length of time
recommended by the MPRP, to the extent that the duration of Ms.
Anderson's Rehabilitation Agreement with the MPRP parallels the
probationary period. Ms. Anderson shall fully, timely, and
satisfactorily cooperate and comply with all MPRP
recommendations and requirements, including but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of any Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with the MPRP, any evaluations
and treatment recommended by the MPRP, complete abstinence,
random monitored toxicology screens as required by the MPRP,
self-help fellowship meetings and in-patient substance abuse
treatment if recommended by the MPRP;

Condition No. Five (5)

For the entire duration of the probationary period, Ms. Anderson
shall abstain completely from the ingestion of alcohol, CDS, any
narcotics, cocaine, or other mood-altering substances unless she is
a bona fide patient of a license health care provider who has been
provided a copy of this order and any prior orders;

Condition No. Six (6)

The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Physician
Assistants Act and all laws, statutes and regulations pertaining to
the practice of being a PAI.]

On or about January 6, 2017, MPRP notified the Board that in a toxicology

the substance.

? For confidentiality reasons, the specific findings from toxicology testing will not be disclosed in this

document. The Respondent is aware of the specific toxicology test findings referenced herein.

6
 

12. On or about August 28, 2017, MPRP notified the Board that the
Respondent tested positive for another substance that was prohibited under the express
terms of the Order and the PRA. The Respondent denied the use of the substance.

13. After receiving these findings, the State issued the Violation, alleging that
the Respondent violated the Order when she tested positive for a substance that was
prohibited under the express terms of the Order and PRA on or about August 28, 2017,
in violation of Conditions Two (2), Three (3) and Five (5) of the Order. The charges also
alleged that the Respondent's positive test finding constituted a violation of the following
provision of the Act under Health Occ. Il § 15-314(a): (3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine.

14. While the above charges were pending, the Respondent underwent
additional toxicology screening pursuant to her PRA. In a toxicology test taken on
November 13, 2017, the Respondent tested positive for another substance prohibited
under the express terms of the Order and PRA. The Respondent also admitted to
ingesting substances that violated the express terms of the Order and the PRA.

15. Based on the above findings, Panel B voted to amend the Violation to
reflect the positive toxicology report referenced in {| 14, supra.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing facts, Disciplinary Panel B concludes that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.).

Panel B also concludes as a matter of law that the Respondent violated

Probationary Conditions Two (2), Five (5) and Six (6) of the Order Terminating
