IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

COLLINA O. AFRIYIE, PA-C * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: C05636 * Case Number: 2220-0002A
* x x * * * * x * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On March 25, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board’”’) charged COLLINA O. AFRIYIE, PA-C (the “Respondent”),
License Number C05636, under the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act’), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.” ) §§ 15-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.)
Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of Health Occ. §
15-314:

(a) Grounds. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this subtitle,

a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum, may

reprimand any physician assistant, place any physician assistant on

probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the physician assistant:
(3) Is guilty of:
Gi) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(27) Sells, prescribes, gives away, or administers drugs for illegal or
illegitimate medical reasons;

(41) Performs delegated medical acts beyond the scope of the delegation
agreement filed with the Board or after notification from the Board
that an advanced duty has been disapproved;

(42) Performs delegated medical acts without the supervision of a
physician[.]
On August 12, 2020, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds:
L BACKGROUND
1, The Respondent was and is a physician assistant (“PA”) licensed in the State of

Maryland. She was initially licensed on November 24, 2014. Her license is current and is
scheduled to expire on June 30, 2021.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent practiced at a group pain management
practice (the “Practice”) in Hagerstown, Maryland.'

3. On or about June 28, 2019, the Board received from the Practice a Termination of
Employment (Delegation Agreement) Report (the “Report”) that advised that the
Respondent had been terminated effective June 21, 2019, for “Quality of Care Issues.”
Specifically, the Report documented that the Respondent had not properly disposed of
certain medication and had prescribed medications, including Controlled Dangerous
Substances (“CDS”), to individuals who were not patients of the Respondent or the

Practice.

' Names of the practice, patients and individuals are confidential. The Respondent may obtain the
information upon request to the Administrative Prosecutor

2
4. ° The Board initiated an investigation that included interviewing the Respondent,
relevant personnel at the Practice, and the non-patients to whom the Respondent prescribed
medications and subpoenaing the Respondent’s personnel file. The personnel file
documented issues regarding concerning changes in the Respondent’s conduct and
attendance at the Practice.?

Il Current Allegations

5. The Board’s investigation revealed that on or about June 20, 2019, the Respondent
failed to dispose appropriately of certain medications. The medications were found in
various locations in her office rather than the appropriate location.

6. The Board’s investigation further revealed that the Respondent had prescribed
medications, including CDS, to three (3) individuals with whom the Respondent was
acquainted, but who were not patients of the Practice (“Person 1,” “Person 2,” and “Person
3.”)

7. Pharmacy records subpoenaed by the Board documented that the Respondent had
prescribed to Person 1 60 tablets of Tylenol #3 (a Schedule II] CDS) in March 2019 and
60 tablets of Norco (a Schedule II CDS) in April 2019.

8. When interviewed under oath by Board staff, the Respondent admitted to
prescribing to Person 1 when Person | was not a patient of the Practice. The Respondent

admitted that she did not maintain a medical record for Person 1.

? The specific nature of the Respondent’s conduct changes is confidential.

3
9.

Pharmacy records subpoenaed by the Board documented that the Respondent had

prescribed to Person 2 the following medications:

10.

-Adderall (a Schedule II CDS): 40 tablets in January 2017; 90 tablets in March 2018;
-Fioricet (not a CDS): 60 tablets in March 2017;

-Oxycodone 10 mg. (a Schedule II CDS): 90 tablets in May 2018 and June 2018
(two prescriptions);

-Oxycodone 10 mg: 120 tablets in September, November 2018, and February,
March, April, May, June (two prescriptions) 2019.

When interviewed under oath by Board staff, the Respondent admitted to

prescribing the above medications to Person 2 when Person 2 was not a patient of the

Practice. The Respondent admitted that she did not maintain a medical record for Person

2.

11.

Pharmacy records subpoenaed by the Board documented that the Respondent had

prescribed to Person 3 oxycodone 10 mg in varying quantities on the following dates:

12.

- 60 tablets in April 2018;

-30 tablets in June 2018 and 90 tablets at the end of June 2018;
-90 tablets in June 2018, January 2019 and February 2019;

-44 tablets in May 2019;

-46 tablets in June 2019.

When interviewed under oath by Board staff, the Respondent admitted to

prescribing the above medications to Person 3 when Person 3 was not a patient of the

Practice. The Respondent admitted that she did not maintain a medical record for Person

3.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation
of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(3)(ii); prescribed drugs for illegal or illegitimate purposes, in
violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(27); performed delegated medical acts beyond the
scope of the delegation agreement filed with the Board, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-
314(a)(41); and performed delegated medical acts without the supervision of a physician,
in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(42).

ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice as a physician assistant is
SUSPENDED? for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS.’ During the suspension, the
Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions of the suspension:

(1) Within SIX (6) MONTHS, the Respondent is required to take and

successfully complete TWO (2) COURSES: one course in Professional Ethics and

one course in CDS Prescribing. The following terms apply:

* During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:
(1) practice medicine;
(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold herself out to the public as a current
provider of medical services;
(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider number by any health
care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the
state;
(5) prescribe or dispense medications; or
(6) perform any other act that requires an active physician assistant license.

“ If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions
will be tolled.
(2)

(a) it is the Respondent's responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) the disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the internet;

(c) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal;

(e) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course;

The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to
authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and
files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to
ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the
Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol

6
evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of
this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further
ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Consent
Order has passed, the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and
conditions for the suspension, and if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the
Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent may submit a
written petition to the disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s
license. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss
her petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through
an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and
conditions it deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but not
limited to, probation and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the
disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice
of medicine, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel

for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may

impose any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further
ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which

has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

] File
eee Signature on

Date Christine A. Farfell}
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT

I, Collina Afriyie, PA-C, assert that I am aware of my right to consult with and be
represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any proceedings that
would otherwise result from the charges currently pending. I have chosen to proceed
without counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel is freely
and voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

L assert that 1 am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.

concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights
to appeal this Consent Order.
I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

( gf is

Date Collina Afriyie, PA-C
Respondent

Signature on File

 

NOTARY

STATE OF vV\

CITY/COUNTY OF
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this _7_| 6 day of
$ \ , 2020, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and

City/County, did personally appear Collina Afriyie, PA-C and made oath in due form of

 
 
    
   
   

law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

ck
en aR eh paren?

LAY Ve
tS \9, 204

a. COUN)
My commission expires\, My \A | Q (L013

AS WITNESSETH my hand and seal.

     

  

10
