IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

IAN NEWBOLD, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D41112 * Case Number: 2223-0043A
* * * & * x * x * * * * *

AMENDED ORDER OF DEFAULT!

On March 9, 2023, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged Ian Newbold, M.D., with unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), failure to provide the details of a
patient’s medical record to the patient upon proper request, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(13), and a violation of any rule or regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal
law pertaining to the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43). On June
21, 2023, the case was referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“‘OAH”) for an
evidentiary hearing.

On June 27, 2023, OAH sent a notice to the parties that a scheduling conference would be
held on August 18, 2023, at 9:30 a.m., by video-conference. The scheduling notice was sent to
Dr. Newbold at his address of record. On August 18, 2023, at 9:50 a.m., the Administrative Law
Judge (“ALJ”) commenced the scheduling conference by video-conference. The administrative
prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State. Dr. Newbold did not appear, nor did anyone else
appear on his behalf. The ALJ noted that the notice was sent to Dr. Newbold at his address of
record, the notice was not returned as undeliverable, and there was no request for postponement
or any communication from Dr. Newbold.

' The January 22, 2024 Order of Default is Amended to include disciplinary ground Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43),
which was inadvertently not included in the original Order. The remainder of the Order is the same.
Following the scheduling conference, on August 21, 2023, OAH sent a Notice of
Prehearing Conference to the parties that notified the parties that a prehearing conference would
be held on October 5, 2023, at 9:30 a.m., by video-conference. The Notice of Prehearing
Conference informed Dr. Newbold that the failure to appear or to give timely notice of his inability
to appear at the prehearing conference could result in a decision against him. On August 22, 2023,
OAH also sent a scheduling order that notified the parties of the date and time of the prehearing
conference and gave instructions regarding the submission of any motions and discovery. None
of the hearing notices or correspondence were returned to OAH as undeliverable.

On August 29, 2023, the State submitted its prehearing conference statement and exhibits,
in accordance with the scheduling order. Dr. Newbold did not submit any prehearing conference
statement or exhibits. On October 5, 2023, the ALJ held the remote prehearing conference. The
administrative prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State. Dr. Newbold did not appear. After
waiting for Dr. Newbold until 9:50 a.m., the ALJ commenced the prehearing conference. The ALJ
noted that neither Dr. Newbold nor anyone authorized to represent him appeared at the prehearing
conference 20 minutes after the scheduled start time. The ALJ also noted that none of the notices
or correspondence were returned as undeliverable and there was no request for postponement filed
or any other communication from Dr. Newbold. The ALJ, thus, concluded that Dr. Newbold
received proper notice of the prehearing conference, and the State made a motion for a proposed
default order.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “[i]f, after receiving proper notice as provided in
Regulation .05C of this chapter, a party fails to attend or participate, either personally or through
a representative, in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the ALJ may

proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated by the

 
agency, issue a final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.” COMAR
28.02.01.23A.

On October 27, 2023, the ALJ issued a Corrected Proposed Default Order.? The ALJ found
that Dr. Newbold had proper notice of the October 5, 2023 video prehearing conference and that
he failed to appear or participate. The ALJ proposed that the Panel find Dr. Newbold in default,
adopt as findings of fact the statements set out in the allegations of fact section of the charges, and
conclude as a matter of law that Dr. Newbold violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) and 14-
404(a)(13). The ALJ did not make a recommendation regarding Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43). As
a sanction, the ALJ proposed that Dr. Newbold’s license to practice medicine in Maryland be
revoked.

The ALJ mailed copies of the Corrected Proposed Default Order to Dr. Newbold, the
administrative prosecutor, and the Board at the parties’ respective addresses of record. The
Corrected Proposed Default Order notified the parties that they may file written exceptions to the
proposed order but must do so within 15 days of the date of the Corrected Proposed Default Order.
The Corrected Proposed Default Order stated that any exceptions and requests for a hearing must
be sent to the Board with a copy provided to the opposing party. Neither party filed exceptions.
On December 20, 2023, this case came before Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Board for

final disposition.

> The Corrected Proposed Default Order was issued to include the notice of the right to file exceptions, which was not
included on the initial Proposed Default Order issued on October 11, 2023.
3

 
FINDINGS OF FACT
Because Panel B concludes that Dr. Newbold has defaulted and has not filed exceptions to
the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted from the allegations
of fact in the March 9, 2023 charges and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence:

1, The Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
December 17, 1990, under License Number D41112. The Respondent was on
Probation? and his license was scheduled to expire on September 30, 2023.4

2. The Respondent is not board-certified in any medical specialty.

3. The Respondent previously owned and operated a medical practice with an
office located in Hagerstown, Maryland. The Respondent’s practice focused on
family medicine. He does not hold any hospital privileges.

4. The Respondent is currently employed as a physician at a State-run licensed
Intermediate Care Facility (ICF).

5. On or about July 21, 2022, the Board received a complaint from a former
patient of the Respondent (the “Patient”).> The complaint stated in part:

Appointment [with] Dr. Newbold on 5-17-22. Notice on [the] office
door saying [the] office was closed permanently. [The] Telephone
goes to voicemail stating staff would return calls. No calls have been
returned.

 

Dr. Newbold is my primary care physician for approximately 5
years treating me for High B.P., C.O.P.D and Vit. B12 deficiency.
B-12 shot [is] prescribed monthly. Totally out of albuterol for
breathing.

 

3 On February 16, 2023, the Respondent entered into a public Consent Order regarding Case # 2220-0127A. He was
reprimanded and placed on probation for a minimum of one (1) year subject to terms and conditions. The Respondent
also agreed to a permanent prohibition from prescribing and dispensing opioids and from certifying patients for the
medical use of cannabis.

* Dr. Newbold’s license expired on September 30, 2023. Pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-403(a), the Board retains
jurisdiction over Dr. Newbold because a license “may not lapse by operation of law while the individual is under
investigation or while charges are pending.”

* For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in this case are
not disclosed in this document, The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and health care facilities
referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

4
No phone number to obtain records for new doctor.

6. After receiving and reviewing the above complaint, the Board initiated an
investigation of the Respondent.

7. A review of Dr. Newbold’s website (http://newboldmd.com) reveals a
notice at the top right-hand side of the website that reads:

NOTICE:

OFFICE VISITS UNAVAILABLE AFTER 5/13/2022
Home-visits wherever you are within Maryland 24/7 day or night.
Call [Phone #1] or [Phone #2] or email below. Pay online before

seen.

“IF YOU HAVE A PHONE — YOU HAVE A MD
CONSULTANT PHYSICIAN — WHEREVER YOU ARE.”

8. By letter dated July 29, 2022, and sent to his personal address of record with
the Board, Board staff notified the Respondent that it had opened a preliminary
investigation into the complaint and provided him with a copy of the complaint.
The Board directed the Respondent to provide a written response to the allegations
within ten (10) business days. The Board also issued a Subpoena Duces Tecum that
directed the Respondent to transmit to the Board within ten (10) business days “a
complete copy of any and all medical records for [Patient].”

9, A second letter dated August 25, 2022, and sent to the Respondent’s email
notified the Respondent that to date, he had not complied with the initial request
for written response and records. The letter set a new deadline of August 31, 2022.

10. By email dated September 9, 2022, the Respondent informed the Board that
a medical issue had kept him from replying sooner and stated “I have arranged
[Patient] his new Dr and his care is attrnded [sic] to in Smithsburg [Maryland]. He
is also under care at [Medical Center].”

11. By emails dated September 15, 2022, and September 26, 2022, the Board
notified Dr. Newbold that the Patient still wanted a copy of their medical records.
The Board also inquired as to the status of providing these records to the Patient.

12. By email dated September 26, 2022, the Respondent indicated that he was
“not well at all” and was “unable to drive a car” and “physically search for
[Patient’s] file in 4 storage units.”

13. By email dated October 4, 2022, the Board reminded the Respondent that
“as a licensee, you have an ongoing obligation to provide access to and copies of

 
medical records to your patients, in accordance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health
General Article.”

14, A response email dated October 4, 2022, from the Respondent, stated that
he is “very ill” and is “struggling.”

15. By email dated November I, 2022, the Board once again reached out to the
Respondent to inquire as to the status of the Patient’s medical records. The

Respondent did not respond.

16. On November 9, 2022, the Board contacted the Patient who indicated that
they still have not received a copy of their medical records from the Respondent.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B finds Dr. Newbold in default based upon his failure to appear at the OAH for the
video prehearing conference scheduled for October 5, 2023. See Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §
10-210(4). Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, Panel B concludes that Dr. Newbold is
guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii), failure to provide the details of a patient’s medical record to the patient upon proper
request, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(13), and violated any rule or regulation adopted
by the Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the practice of medicine, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43).

SANCTION

Panel B adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ to revoke Dr. Newbold’s license to

practice medicine in Maryland.
ORDER
It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby
ORDERED that the license of Ian Newbold, M.D. to practice medicine in Maryland is

REVOKED); and it is further

 
ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2), and

Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

oxi 2024 Signature On File
Date Christine A. Farrelly] ‘Rpyecins
Maryland State Board of Physicians

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Newbold has the right to seek
judicial review of this Order of Default. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within thirty
(30) days from the date of mailing of this Order of Default. The cover letter accompanying this
Order indicates the date the decision was mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made
as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and
Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If Dr. Newbold files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
Stacey Darin
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

nee
