IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ANDREA N. BAILEY, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Applicant for Reinstatement * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Former License No.: D44694 * Case No.: 8823-0005

* * * x * * * * * x x * *

ORDER ON APPLICATION FOR REINSTATEMENT
OF MEDICAL LICENSE AFTER REVOCATION

I. INTRODUCTION

On January 23, 2018, Disciplinary Panel B (the “Panel” or “Panel B”) of the Maryland
State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) issued an Order After Show Cause Hearing revoking the
Maryland medical license of Andrea N. Bailey, M.D. The revocation was based on the Panel’s
findings that Dr. Bailey violated multiple provisions of a 2016 Consent Order she entered into
with the Panel that required her to comply with conditions of a Rehabilitation Agreement with
the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). On October 26, 2022, the Board
received Dr. Bailey’s application for the reinstatement of her license.

On October 25, 2023, Panel B, acting as a Reinstatement Inquiry Panel, met with Dr.
Bailey and an Administrative Prosecutor from the State to consider her reinstatement application.
Panel B reviewed relevant written materials including Dr. Bailey’s application and attachments;
criminal court documents from Virginia; answers to the Board’s reinstatement questions received
from Dr. Bailey on June 15, 2023; medical records and reports from health providers; letters of
support and recommendation; a memorandum from the State recommending the denial of Dr.
Bailey’s reinstatement; Dr. Bailey’s reply to the State dated September 8, 2023; and her prior

disciplinary Orders. The Panel also heard oral presentations from Dr. Bailey and the State.
H. BACKGROUND
1. Licensure, Professional, and Employment History

Dr. Bailey was originally licensed by the Board to practice medicine in Maryland in
1993, She allowed her license to expire in 2009, applied for reinstatement in October 2014, and
her license was reinstated in December 2014. Dr. Bailey’s license was suspended from April 2,
2015 until July 30, 2015, and summarily suspended on July 17, 2017. Dr. Bailey also held
medical licenses in New York from 1991 to 2016, and in Virginia from 2010 to 2016. Prior to
her Maryland license revocation in 2018, Dr. Bailey did not hold any hospital privileges and was
not board-certified by the American Board of Medical Specialties. She specialized in pediatrics.

From October 2010 to September 2011, Dr. Bailey was employed by a private pediatric
practice in Virginia, and from 2012 to 2013, worked at a Community Health Center in Virginia.
From approximately 2013 to 2015, Dr. Bailey was employed part-time as a locum fenens
physician with clinical assignments in Maryland and Virginia, and from approximately
September 2016 to May 2017, was employed in part-time positions at private pediatric offices in

Maryland.

2. Criminal History - Virginia 2013-2017: Arrests, Guilty Pleas, and Convictions for
Prescription Fraud

Between 2013 and 2017, Dr. Bailey was arrested, charged, and convicted in Virginia on
three separate occasions for criminal offenses that included writing multiple fraudulent
prescriptions, obtaining drugs by fraud, and attempted prescription fraud.

2013: Virginia Beach and Norfolk
On April 15, 2013, a grand jury in Virginia Beach, Virginia, charged Dr. Bailey with

attempting to obtain prescription drugs by fraud. On June 4, 2013, she pleaded guilty to one

 
into her previous behaviors. She also stated that her physical health has stabilized. To lessen the
likelihood of recurrence, Dr. Bailey emphasized that she now understands the importance of
physical and mental health, has reconnected with trusted health providers, therapists, and friends,
and has worked hard to establish relationships, support groups, and a network of personal and
professional connections to assist her.

Board staff received Dr. Bailey’s current medical records and reports from two treating
health providers supporting reinstatement of her medical license. They opined that she was
genuinely remorseful for her actions and earnest in continuing her rehabilitative and restorative
efforts to manage her health conditions more effectively. Dr. Bailey provided letters of support
and recommendations from multiple friends and acquaintances with whom she has reconnected.

Board staff confirmed with the Virginia Department of Corrections that Dr. Bailey
completed her supervised probation and received verification of her compliance with the
conditions and evaluations ordered by the Virginia Beach court in 2017, Dr. Bailey completed
the requisite credit hours for continuing medical education (“CME”) and provided
documentation of CME courses taken as well as certification from the American Academy of
Pediatrics that she obtained 160 CME hours completing PREP Self-Assessments from 2020-
2023,

Dr. Bailey informed the Board that her employment history since 2018 included
providing services in restaurants and grocery stores, working as a caregiver, and volunteering in
community food banks. With respect to prospective employment opportunities, she attached
screenshots of text communications from healthcare staffing representatives, recruiters, and
individuals, advertising pediatric, urgent care, and locum tenens positions in over [2 other states.

In August 2023, the Board received a memorandum from the Administrative Prosecutor for the

I

 
State summarizing Dr. Bailey’s criminal and disciplinary history and opposing the reinstatement
of her medical license. On September 8, 2023, Dr. Bailey sent a series of emails to Board staff,
including a written reply to the Administrative Prosecutor, and letters of endorsement and
support, most of which she had previously submitted.
Reply to the Administrative Prosecutor

In her September 8, 2023 written reply, Dr. Bailey highlighted specific health conditions
as reasons for her crimes of prescription fraud in Virginia and her disciplinary violations tn
Maryland. She stated that she called in prescriptions for certain CDS using a fictitious name in
Virginia in 2013 after she had surgery. Dr. Bailey also stated that her 2017 felony of calling in a
non-controlled substance refill for herself to a Virginia pharmacy under a fictitious name was
due to another health condition and her “irresponsibility” for a “lack of insurance and a primary
care physician.” While acknowledging that calling in prescriptions for herself with a fictitious
name was not justified, Dr. Bailey stated that she never used other doctors’ prescription pads to
obtain her medication. Regarding her false answers and failure to disclose her 2013 guilty pleas
for prescription fraud in Virginia on her 2014 Maryland reinstatement application, Dr. Bailey
maintained that she was already enrolled in a Virginia rehabilitation program when she “renewed
{her] Maryland license in 2016” and was “under the impression” that the Maryland Board was
therefore aware of her 2013 guilty pleas. She also based her failure to disclose her convictions to
the New York Board on her enrollment in the Virginia program and desperation to find work.

Dr. Bailey further claimed that she used an urgent care physician’s DEA number to
prescribe a CDS for a patient because the physician told her to do so and acknowledged that that
she “did not handle this situation appropriately.” She asserted that she does not remember being

informed of, or receiving, a practice cessation agreement from MPRP in June 2017. Other claims

 
by Dr. Bailey in her reply include that (1) MPRP statements of her non-compliance were unfair;
(2) and all evaluations throughout her employment at a pediatric office were excellent before her
employment termination, and she “feel(s)” that a final negative performance evaluation
concerning her unreliability and behavior was “written hastily” to protect the pediatric practice
against criticism after their knowledge of her Virginia 2017 arrest. With respect to practicing
without a valid license, Dr. Bailey claimed that she does not “understand this charge at all”
because she had a Maryland license in good standing when she worked at the pediatric practice
and until she was charged [in Virginia] in May of 2017. She also stated that she has not worked
as a physician in 6 years because she does not have a license, and “to [her] recollection,” she told
the Virginia pharmacist that she had a license in Maryland, not in Virginia.

IV. CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION

The reinstatement of an individual’s license after revocation is a discretionary decision by
a disciplinary panel. Health Occ. § 14-409; see Oltman v. Maryland State Board of Physicians,
182 Md. App. 65, 78 (2008). The Panel must consider whether post-disciplinary reinstatement is
in the interest of the health and welfare of the general public and consistent with the best interest
of the profession. COMAR 10.32.02.06B(7). If a disciplinary panel chooses not to reinstate the
petitioner’s license, the “disciplinary panel decision denying reinstatement may set out when, if
ever, a subsequent petition may be submitted.” COMAR 10.32.02.06B(8).

The Panel is sympathetic to the personal losses experienced by Dr. Bailey and commends
her for the efforts she has undertaken since her revocation to overcome challenges and address
multiple difficulties and stressors in her life. The Panel has considered the medical reports,
recommendations, character attestations, and letters from health care providers, friends, and

acquaintances that Dr. Bailey submitted to support her application and credits the progress she

 
has made since her 2017 guilty plea to prescription fraud. In addition to keeping up with
literature in the pediatric field, Dr. Bailey has obtained more than the requisite continuing
medical education credit hours. Her fulfillment of the conditions ordered by the Virginia Beach
court and recognition of the importance of addressing her health conditions and having a support
system are laudable. The Panel agrees with Dr. Bailey that there is no justification for calling in
prescriptions for herself under a fictitious name. Her recent statement that she never used
prescription pads to obtain her medication, however, does not mitigate the extremely serious
nature of her criminal offenses for prescription fraud.

In addition, the inconsistencies between Dr. Bailey’s initial answers to the Board’s
reinstatement questions in June 2023 and her most recent reply to the State’s summary of her
criminal and disciplinary history in September 2023, are also deeply concerning to the Panel, and
undermine her initial claims of rehabilitation and statements that she has taken responsibility for
her actions. Dr. Bailey’s license was revoked because of the deliberate nature of her crimes of
prescription fraud, which continued for years. Panel B was also concerned about her intentional
dishonesty in concealing material information regarding her criminal actions on her 2014
reinstatement application, and her non-compliance with the conditions necessary to ensure her
fitness to practice medicine safely, despite the Panel’s forbearance and the previous opportunities
granted to her in the 2016 Consent Order. While admitting her criminal and disciplinary
violations in her initial answers, Dr. Bailey relied extensively on her health conditions and a lack
of insurance not merely to explain, but to justify those violations in her later reply. In so doing,
she contradicted many of her previous admissions, distorted facts, disputed that she practiced
without a license, and repeatedly ignored, minimized, or attempted to justify the nature,

seriousness, and totality of her conduct.

 
Most perplexing to the Panel is Dr. Bailey’s reliance on her Maryland license as a pretext
for her claim that she does not understand “at all” how she could be charged with practicing
without a license. She pleaded guilty to practicing without a. valid license in Virginia, not in
Maryland. In her reply, Dr. Bailey blurs the distinction between her Maryland medical license,
which was in effect in May 2017, and her Virginia license, which was suspended in 2016. As a
highly educated, intelligent physician with knowledge of the formal criminal charges issued in
Virginia on May 11, 2017, for felony prescription fraud and misdemeanor practicing without a
valid medical license, Dr. Bailey’s purported ignorance of the latter charge is not only
implausible, but utterly inconsistent with the Plea Agreement and Stipulation of Facts that she
signed on October 23, 2017. In her Plea Agreement, Dr. Bailey pleaded guilty to both charges,
and agreed that she entered her guilty plea because she was, in fact, guilty. The Stipulation of
Facts confirms that Dr. Bailey identified herself to the pharmacist as a pediatric doctor practicing
in both Maryland and Virginia. When advised by detectives that she was not permitted to
prescribe in Virginia because of her suspended license, she said she thought she could call in
prescriptions as long as they were not CDS. Dr. Bailey does not address her intentionally false
statements to the Virginia pharmacist that she could not remember her DEA number and later
telling detectives that she did not have one.

Equally troubling to the Panel are the contradictions between Dr. Bailey's September
2023 statements and her prior June 2023 admissions that (1) she failed to disclose her 2013
guilty pleas for prescription fraud in Virginia on her 2014 Maryland reinstatement application;
and (2) she gave “fraudulent answers to questions” on her New York license renewal application.
In her reply, she downplayed responsibility for her false “NO” answers and maintained that both

boards must have already known of her guilty pleas because of her enrollment in a Virginia

15
rehabilitation program. She also altered the date of her 2014 application to 2016 and contradicted
her sworn testimony to the Board on November 12, 2015 stating that she failed to disclose her
Virginia criminal history because she “thought the charges were going to be dismissed.” Dr.
Bailey’s culpability for her false answers on her applications to the Maryland and New York
licensing boards is not diminished by her obfuscation of the facts in her latest reply and her
“impression” that these boards were somehow aware of her guilty pleas and the information she
chose to withhold. In 2014, the Board had no knowledge of her 2013 guilty pleas to prescription
fraud in Virginia® and relied on the veracity of her answers.

Similarly, Dr. Bailey’s latest claim that MPRP was unfair in its statements of her non-
compliance in 2017 further underscores the contradictions between her admission in her June
2023 answer to the Board that she self-prescribed refill medications under a fictitious name while
enrolled in MPRP and her admissions of those criminal actions to MPRP and the Board in 2017.
In Dr, Bailey’s view, she fulfilled much of the MPRP testing and appointments, but her health
conditions prevented her full compliance. Her reply not only ignored MPRP’s concern that she
violated the most critical condition of her Rehabilitation Agreement not to self-prescribe or self-
treat but trivialized her violation. Her claim of unfairness by MPRP demonstrates that she
continues to minimize the criminal nature and illegality of her conduct.

Successive pediatric evaluation reports from 2016 to 2017 in Dr. Bailey’s MPRP records
also contradict her September 2023 reply regarding her pediatric employment. Although she
received an excellent employer evaluation rating on her October 2016 vocational report, the
subsequent quarterly reports, from December 2016 to May 2017, reveal a gradual and discernible
deterioration in Dr. Bailey’s punctuality, work performance and quality, stress management, and

5 In 2015, the Maryland General Assembly enacted § 14-308.1, a provision requiring a criminal history records
check (“CHRC”) by all applicants for licensure and reinstatement. See 2015 Md. Laws, § 2, ch. 34, Acts 2015.

16
management, and collegial relationships, including critical comments about her bedside manner
and insensitivity to patients and parents. Dr. Bailey does not address the totality of the reports
and disputes accounts of her unreliability and behavior. She also claims that she was unaware of
practice cessation agreements sent by MPRP, but the record shows that MPRP sent a practice
cessation agreement to Dr. Bailey on May 30, 2017, and that she belatedly but eventually signed

the agreement on June 9, 2017.

Dr. Bailey stated in her reply that she would like to be judged on her more recent
behavior. In her June 2023 answers to the Board’s questions, she stated that she had taken
ownership of her actions. Based on her revisionist descriptions, in her reply, of her illegal
actions, Dr. Bailey’s declaration of ownership is not, in the Panel’s opinion, sincere or accurate.
Despite the steps she has taken to address her prior behavior, Dr. Bailey’s recent justifications
and continuing proclivity to misrepresent significant facts reveal that she is either unwilling or
unable to be fully accountable for that behavior. Her conduct reflected her disregard for both the
privilege of medical licensure and the legitimate use of her medical license, from 2013 to 2017,
and led to criminal convictions in Virginia and subsequent disciplinary actions by three state
licensing boards. Six years later, Dr. Bailey’s rationalizations give no assurance to the Panel that
she has fully addressed her reparative needs or accepted meaningful responsibility for her ethical
deficiencies and lack of commitment to her legal and professional obligations. Nor is the Panel
persuaded that she understands the gravity of her past conduct or that she has gained sufficient
insight into the events that led to her revocation.

During her oral presentation to the Panel, Dr. Bailey stated that she was unaware of

appropriate conduct in the past because she was not focused, and that she has now accepted full

17
responsibility for what she had done. In responding to a question about her licensure status in
Virginia and New York, she said that she had not reapplied for a medical license in those states.

Having considered the entire record in this case, Panel B has determined, in its discretion,
that the reinstatement of Dr. Bailey’s Maryland medical license is not within the interest of the
health and welfare of the public and is not consistent with the best interests of the medical
profession. The Panel, therefore, denies her application for reinstatement.

ORDER

It is thus, by Disciplinary Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the Application for Reinstatement of Medical License filed by Andrea
N. Bailey, M.D., former license number D44694, is DENIED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Bailey shall not reapply for the reinstatement of her Maryland
medical license any earlier than two years from the date of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14.411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 3-333(b)(6).

Signature On File
03/14 [2024 a |
Pes nitions LU
count of attempted prescription fraud. The court reduced the charge to a misdemeanor and found
Dr. Bailey guilty on July 9, 2014.

On April 17, 2013, a grand jury in Norfolk, Virginia, charged Dr. Bailey with the felony
of obtaining drugs by fraud based on her calling into, and picking up, prescriptions for controlled
dangerous substances (“CDS”) from a pharmacy, using the names of fictitious patients, and then
diverting the CDS for her personal use. On April 30, 2013, Dr. Bailey pleaded guilty to obtaining
drugs by fraud. On May 1, 2015, the court found that Dr. Bailey violated her probation, reduced
the original charge to a misdemeanor, and convicted her of obtaining drugs by fraud pursuant to
her guilty plea.

2017: Virginia Beach

On May 11, 2017, Dr. Bailey was arrested by the Virginia Beach Police Department and
charged with one count of felony prescription fraud, and one count of misdemeanor practicing
without a valid medical license, based on a police investigation which revealed that, on April 2,
2017, Dr. Bailey called in a non-CDS prescription medication to a chain pharmacy in Virginia
under a fictitious name and fictitious date of birth. Dr. Bailey identified herself to the pharmacist
as a pediatric doctor practicing in both Maryland and Virginia, when, in fact, she did not hold a
medical license in Virginia.! After being informed by detectives that she was not permitted to
practice in Virginia as her license was suspended there, Dr. Bailey said that she thought she
could call in prescriptions as long as they were not CDS. At the time of her arrest, Dr. Bailey
possessed numerous blank prescription pads with more than ten other doctors’ names. The
criminal investigation also revealed that, since September 2015, Dr. Bailey had called in more
than 25 prescriptions to this chain pharmacy for herself in the name of a fictitious person. On

' The Virginia Board of Medicine (“Virginia Board”) suspended Dr. Bailey’s Virginia medical license in July,
2016.
October 23, 2017, Dr. Bailey pleaded guilty to both criminal counts and was sentenced to six
years’ incarceration with all six years suspended. She was placed on indefinite supervised
probation with requirements that she remain on good behavior and comply with conditions that
included appropriate drug testing, professional evaluations, and treatment.
3. Disciplinary History 2015-2018 — Virginia, Maryland, New York, Maryland

Virginia: Summary Suspension 2015 and Stay of Suspension

In March 2015, the Virginia Board summarily suspended Dr. Bailey's medical license
based primarily on her criminal offenses of writing several hundred dosage units of CDS
prescriptions for her personal use in the name of fictitious patients between 2010 and 2013. In
July 2015, the Virginia Board subsequently stayed the suspension on the condition that Dr.
Bailey enroll in and successfully complete a Health Practitioner Monitoring Program.
Maryland: License Suspension 2015 and Stay of Suspension

Pursuant to a Consent Agreement dated April 2, 2015, the Board suspended Dr. Bailey’s
license in Maryland until her license was reinstated by the Virginia Board. Following the stay by
the Virginia Board, the Board stayed her suspension in Maryland on July 30, 2015,
New York: License Revocation March 2016, and Virginia Suspension July 2016

In December 2015, the New York State Board for Professional Medical Conduct (“New
York Board”) issued charges against Dr. Bailey based on the disciplinary actions by the
Maryland and Virginia medical boards. The charges also included unprofessional conduct based
on Dr. Bailey’s false answers to application questions and the filing of a false report on her New
York registration renewal application for her failure to disclose that criminal charges were

pending against her in Virginia. In March 2016, the New York Board revoked Dr. Bailey’s New
York license after holding a hearing on the charges at which she did not appear. On July 7,
2016, the Virginia Board suspended her license as a reciprocal action.
Maryland: Charges and 2016 Consent Order

Following the Board’s investigation and receipt of information revealing Dr. Bailey's
criminal and disciplinary history in Virginia and New York, Panel B issued charges against Dr.
Bailey on May 26, 2016. The charges were based on her false responses to questions on her
application for the reinstatement of her Maryland medical license? in October 2014, and a
determination that she submitted an altered Continuing Medical Education (“CME”) certificate?
with her application. Panel B also based charges on the March 2016 revocation of her medical
license in New York. On November 12, 2015, during the Board's investigation, Dr. Bailey
admitted under oath in a Board interview that:

(1) The multiple CDS prescriptions in the names of fictitious patients that she wrote from

2010 to 2013 and for which she was arrested in Virginia in 2013 were for herself;

(2) She did not disclose her Virginia criminal history on her Maryland 2014 application

for reinstatement because she “thought the charges were going to be dismissed”;

(3) She falsified her CME certificate because she could not find her most recent CMEs;

(4) She did not have an active DEA license at the time of her interview; and

(5) She was under stress at that time due to family illnesses and financial pressures.

On August 25, 2016, Dr. Bailey entered into a Consent Order with Panel B to resolve the
charges. Panel B concluded that Dr. Bailey violated Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-
404(a)(1), (3), (11), and (36) by willfully failing to disclose her guilty pleas in 2013 for
prescription fraud in Virginia on her 2014 reinstatement application to the Maryland Board.

Panel B also concluded that Dr. Bailey was subject to discipline under the reciprocal discipline

* Dr. Bailey falsely answered “NO” to questions on her Maryland application asking if she had committed a
criminal act to which she pled guilty or for which she was convicted . . ., despite her guilty pleas to Virginia
criminal authorities in 2013 to obtaining drugs by fraud and attempted prescription fraud.

> Dr. Bailey attached a certificate of continuing medical education (*CME”) to her 2014 application to show that
she had taken a pediatric review course for 60 CMEs in May 2014. A subsequent Board investigation revealed that
Dr. Bailey had altered ihe CME certificate she submitted with her application and that the actual date of the course
was May 2001.

 
ground of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21), finding that Dr. Bailey’s revocation by the New York
Board constituted discipline by that licensing board for acts that would be grounds for
disciplinary action in Maryland if committed in this state.

The 2016 Consent Order placed Dr. Bailey on probation for a minimum period of four
years with terms and conditions, including requiring her to take an ethics course, which she
completed in April 2017. The Consent Order also required her to enroll in MPRP and “to fully
and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including . .

the terms and conditions of a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan...” Dr. Bailey agreed to the conditions. She signed the Consent Order,
enrolled in MPRP on September 8, 2016, and entered into a Five-Year Rehabilitation
Agreement, in which she agreed not to “self-prescribe nor provide my own medical care or
treatment.” Dr. Bailey also agreed to comply with her Rehabilitation Plan, which included daily
check-ins by phone or email and monthly face-to-face meetings, appropriate treatment and
medication management by a physician, and obtaining a vocational monitor.
Non-Compliance with MPRP Requirements and Violation of the 2016 Consent Order

Dr. Bailey failed to comply with MPRP’s requirements, in violation of her Consent
Order. On May 10, 2017, Dr. Bailey admitted to MPRP staff that she had been self-prescribing a
non-CDS and filling it in Maryland for some time. By self-prescribing, Dr. Bailey was also non-
compliant with her Rehabilitation Plan requiring appropriate medication management and
treatment by her physician.

Vocational Monitoring 2016-2017 and Employment Termination May 2017
From October 2016 through May 2017, vocational reports from a monitoring pediatric

office employer of Dr. Bailey showed ratings that went from “excellent” to “poor” in the

 
categories of attendance, relationship with colleagues, managing stress, and overall quality of
work. In general, the reports showed an increasing pattern of poor attendance and punctuality by
Dr. Bailey, deteriorating relationships with colleagues, and declining quality of work, including
specific incidents of being absent from the pediatric office for periods of time without informing
staff, failing to document her clinical activity in patients’ charts, and failing to answer about a
dozen calls during the night when she was “on-call.” A May 2017 report described Dr. Bailey's
“decreasing reliability, not completing work on time, leaving without notifying anyone, and a
change in relationship with staff and patients.” The pediatric practice terminated Dr. Bailey's
employment based on its concerns about her overall behavior in the practice, and concerns about
her arrest in Virginia.

Subsequent Maryland Board Proceedings

In her written response to the Board, Dr. Bailey stated that she did not realize until after
she had completed the ethics course that self-prescribing with any other name than her own
“would get [her] into trouble.” She also stated that she wrote the prescriptions for herself to
“continue my therapy with medications previously prescribed to me for [certain] . . . diagnosed
conditions.*” In a telephone Board interview under oath on July 3, 2017, Dr. Bailey admitted to
self-prescribing and refilling her medications for the past ten years. She conceded that she had no
good explanation for self-prescribing while enrolled in MPRP and that she knew using a
fictitious name would be illegal.

On June 12, 2017, MPRP notified Dr. Bailey in writing that she was being discharged
from MPRP “for cause.” The most critical concern cited by MPRP was Dr. Bailey’s admission in
a phone call, on May 19, 2017, that she had been self-prescribing for the duration of her
participation in MPRP since September 2016, in violation of her Rehabilitation Agreement.

* The specific diagnoses have been omitted in this Order.

 
MPRP also cited Dr. Bailey’s termination as a patient by her physician due to non-compliance in
treatment, MPRP’s inability to meet with her on numerous occasions, and her delay, until June 9,
2017, in signing a practice cessation agreement that was sent to her by MPRP on May 30, 2017,
although MPRP sent her additional reminders by email and telephone.

MPRP notified the Board of Dr. Bailey’s discharge from the Program and emphasized its
serious concerns that she continued to self-prescribe and self-treat for the duration of her
participation with MPRP despite her disciplinary sanction by the Virginia Board for self-
prescribing. MPRP confirmed that Dr. Bailey’s self-prescribing had been explicitly and directly
addressed in MPRP’s multiple face-to-face meetings and other conversations with her, and that
she had acknowledged her understanding that she is prohibited from self-prescribing. MPRP’s
clinical team did not believe that “additional intervention would be successful. . .” and concluded
that Dr. Bailey’s “behavior indicates that she is continuing to minimize or being dishonest. . .”
Maryland: July 2017 Summary Suspension

Based on Dr. Bailey’s discharge and the serious concerns reported by MPRP, Panel B
summarily suspended Dr. Bailey’s medical license on July 17, 2017, and continued the Summary
Suspension after a post-deprivation hearing on July 27, 2017.

Maryland: September 27, 2017 Show Cause Hearing

On September 27, 2017, following the issuance of a Violation of Consent Order and
Notice to Show Cause by the Office of the Attorney General, Panel B conducted a show cause
hearing.° At the hearing, Dr. Bailey did not dispute that her MPRP Rehabilitation Agreement

required that she not self-prescribe and not self-treat. Nor did she dispute her violation of the

> The Show Cause hearing before Panel B on September 27, 2017 occurred before the conclusion of Dr. Bailey’s
criminal proceedings in Virginia Beach and before her guilty plea on October 23, 2017 to felony prescription fraud
and misdemeanor practicing without a valid medical license. These later-occurring events, therefore, were not
considered at the September 27, 2017 Show Cause hearing.

 
2016 Consent Order or her discharge by MPRP for failing to comply with that provision and
with other conditions of her Rehabilitation Plan.
Maryland: January 2018 Revocation

Panel B found that Dr. Bailey violated conditions of the 2016 Consent Order and failed to
show she was fit to practice medicine. On January 23, 2018, the Panel revoked Dr. Bailey's
medical license.

II. APPLICATION FOR REINSTATEMENT

On October 26, 2022, the Board received Dr. Bailey’s application for reinstatement of her
license after revocation. Dr. Bailey attached a written addendum to her application detailing
stressful events she experienced between 2010 and 2017, including the health decline and deaths
of close family members, caregiving responsibilities, job and financial pressures, and her own
health conditions. On May 16, 2023, Board staff sent a letter to Dr. Bailey advising her of the
post-disciplinary reinstatement process and requesting answers to the following questions:

|. What is your understanding of the nature and circumstances of your conduct,
which resulted in the revocation of your Maryland license?

2. What is your understanding of the Board’s concerns with respect to your
conduct?

3. Have you accepted responsibility for the action(s) resulting in the revocation
of your license?

4. What steps have you taken to lessen the likelihood of recurrence?

5. What efforts have you made to maintain your competency to practice
medicine (i.e. continuing education credits)?

The Board also asked Dr. Bailey if she was currently being treated for her health
conditions and requested signed releases permitting the Board to obtain her treatment records. In

addition, the Board requested information about the status of her probation with the court in
Virginia Beach and her compliance with evaluations ordered by the Court. The Board further
inquired about her employment while her license was revoked and her employment prospects if
her license is reinstated. On June 15, 2023, the Board received written answers from Dr. Bailey.
Answers to Reinstatement Questions

Regarding Question 1, Dr. Bailey admitted that she violated the conditions of her 2016
Consent Order requiring compliance with MPRP; self-prescribed refill medications under a
fictitious name while enrolled in MPRP, actions that resulted in violations of her agreement and
termination from the program; was terminated from treatment by her physician; and failed to
disclose her 2013 guilty pleas for prescription fraud in Virginia in her 2014 Maryland
reinstatement application. She also admitted that she gave ‘fraudulent answers to questions” on
her New York license renewal application.

In response to Question 2, Dr. Bailey stated that she understood the Board’s concerns to
be whether she understands the severity of her conduct that caused the loss of her license, is
completely rehabilitated, is emotionally and psychologically stable with support systems in place
for her emotional and professional well-being, has continued in counseling to maintain stability,
and what she has done to stabilize her support systems to prevent relapse.

With respect to Questions 3 and 4 and her current treatment for health conditions, Dr.
Bailey again attached the written addendum she had provided with her application describing her
personal losses, financial stressors, and her health diagnoses at the time her criminal violations
occurred. Dr. Bailey attributed her self-prescribing and calling in refills of various prescriptions
in a fictitious name to these factors, as well as bad decisions, flawed thinking, and a lack of
health insurance. According to Dr. Bailey, she has since reflected on and taken ownership of her

actions, has changed, and learned from her mistakes based on therapy and insight she has gained

10

 
