Hugo Benalcazar, M.D.

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4,. Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Hugo Benalcazar, M.D.
License Number: D56356
Case Number: 7723-0083

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. ("Health Occ.") §14-403
(2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. License Number D56356, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the "Act"), Health
Occ. §§ 14-401 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and, upon
Disciplinary Panel B's ("Panel B") acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the "Board").

I acknowledge that, on July 2, 2021, Panel B summarily suspended my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland and issued charges based on an investigation that determined
that I engaged in a pattern of unprofessional conduct that included, but was not limited to, sexual
harassment of hospital staff, both verbal and physical, sexual propositioning, and unconsented-to
physical contact of at least one patient. Following an evidentiary hearing at the Office of
Administrative Hearings ("OAH"), and an exceptions hearing, Panel B issued a Final Decision
and Order on Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, on August 1, 2022,
which affirmed the July 2, 2021 summary suspension, and ordered that my license to practice
medicine in Maryland remain suspended.

T acknowledge that, on August 27, 2021, the Board issued Amended Charges that charged
me with immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, unprofessional conduct in the practice of
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Hugo Benalcazar
Letter of Surrender

medicine, and violations of the sexual misconduct regulations. Following an evidentiary hearing
at OAH and exceptions hearing, Panel B issued a Final Decision and Order on Amended Charges,

On May 18, 2023, when Panel B concluded that I was guilty of immoral and unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of | 4-404(a)(3 )(i) and (ii), and ordered that the
summary suspension, issued on July 2, 2021, and affirmed in a Final Decision and Order on August
1, 2022, be terminated as moot upon the reinstatement of my expired license. Additionally, I was
reprimanded; my license to practice medicine in Maryland was suspended for a minimum period
of one (I) year, commencing when my Maryland medical license was reinstated;! ordered that I
enroll in and comply with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP"); and
required me to complete courses in boundaries and professionalism within six (6) months. A copy
of the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, Final Decision and Order
on Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, and Final Decision and Order
on Amended Charges are attached and incorporated by reference as Attachments 1, 2 and 3.

I acknowledge that, on February 2, 2024, MPRP closed my case for cause, based on my
refusal to comply and cooperate with their referrals, rules and requirements.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to
avoid prosecution for failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Final Decision and
Order on Amended Charges. I acknowledge that the Final Decision and Order on Amended
Charges will remain and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon
acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the
Final Decision and Order on Amended Charges as long as I do not have or possess an active
medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for refusing to comply with the
terms and conditions of the Final Decision and Order on Amended Charges. I do not wish to contest
these allegations of refusal to comply. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, 1 am
waiving my right to contest any charges of refusal to comply that would issue from Panel B's
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing, at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that, in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of Surrender
may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.§§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.
& 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

! The Respondent's license was reinstated as suspended on November 2, 2023.

 
 

 

Complainant 2

responded by telling the Respondent, “that’s gross.” After that exchange,
Complainant 2 went over to the computer to finish her paperwork when
the Respondent approached her and put his hand in the V-neck area of
her scrub shirt and “touched the top of [her] chest in the cleavage area.”

She reported the incident to the Nursing Director and the two of them had
a meeting with the Respondent. During the meeting, Complainant 1 told
the Respondent that he was inappropriate and unprofessional and asked
him not to touch her again. Complainant | stated that during the meeting
the Respondent “just kind of blew [her] off.”

Complainant | stated that after the meeting with the Nursing Director, the
Respondent did not speak to her very much.

12.On or about December 28, 2020, Board staff conducted an interview with

Complainant 2, a nurse technologist who worked with the Respondent at the

Hospital. In her under-oath interview, Complainant 2 stated:

a. She previously worked in the O.R. with the Respondent exclusively two

days per week, and that “he just had a way of commanding the room and
making people feel incompetent.” She described the Respondent’s
conduct as “disrespectful” and “extremely degrading towards others.”

In or around 2016, she was pregnant and suffering from severe lower back
pain while she was in the O.R. with the Respondent. While she was
discussing her pain with one of her colleagues, the Respondent overheard
and interjected, offering to examine her. The Respondent took her into an
empty room and grabbed her lower back. He told her that he needed to
get a better feel, so she needed to lift her scrub shirt up. She lifted her
shirt “about midway to [her] back.” He then told her that “in order to
really see where [her] pain was coming from [she] needed to lower [her]
pants.” She described lowering her pants midway down and holding them
because she did not want to lower them all the way. The Respondent then
put his hands around her waist and used his thumbs to pinpoint on her
lower back, “he was touching [her] butt...pushing on my underwear and
that’s when he made the comments about how nice everything looked and
how he liked [her underwear].” At this point she pulled her pants up, the
Respondent started giggling, and she left the room.

6
 

she was fearful of losing her job if she made a report against the Respondent. Complainant 2
testified,

On multiple occasions Dr. Hugo Benalcazar would make comments

to me in regards to other staff members. Specifically [Individual 5]

coming in to the room to give [Individual 8] a lunch break. He

would make comments that he could get her fired. That he knew

management very well. That he knew my supervisors very well. He

would say these things to me at the surgical field and make threats

that she wouldn’t be there the next day. That he had that power to

do so. So, when all of this was occurring ] was fearful and scared

to lose my job. That’s why I didn’t report it at the time.
When Complainant 1 complained to the Hospital’s director of perioperative services, Complainant
1 did not feel “she took it very seriously.” When the Respondent was admonished by the Hospital,
Complainant 1, who was still working at the Hospital, did not know anything about it. After the
Respondent slapped the buttocks of the patient in the OR, Individual 5 told the charge nurse, then
heard nothing further about the matter. Individual 5 testified that the charge nurse told Individual
5 that there would probably be nothing done about it. Individual 9 testified that he did not report
the Respondent’s slapping of the anesthetized patient, because “I don’t know how that would have
affected my job.”

Despite complaints, the Respondent’s misconduct persisted for years, and Hospital
employees were not able to discern any consequences for the Respondent. Under these conditions,
the Panel is not persuaded by the lack of reports for misconduct occurring after the Respondent
was reprimanded by the Hospital that the Respondent poses no real threat.

The Respondent engaged in egregious conduct over the course of years and had numerous
victims. The victims were both medical professionals and patients, and the patients were especially

vulnerable. The Panel has also considered that the Respondent does not have a prior disciplinary

record and that Respondent’s license has been summarily suspended since July 2, 2021. The Panel

50

 
 

has decided that the appropriate sanction in this matter is a one-year suspension under § 14-404,
which shall begin when the summary suspension pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) is
terminated. The summary suspension under § 10-226(c)(2) will be terminated when the
Respondent’s expired license is administratively reinstated. See Health Occ. § 14-317; COMAR
10.32.01.11. Once the license is administratively reinstated, the summary suspension is
terminated, and the suspension under § 14-404 goes into effect, the Respondent will be required
to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and successfully
complete courses in boundaries and professionalism. See § 14-404(e) After one year from when
the § 14-404 suspension goes into effect, if the Respondent has complied with the terms and
conditions of the suspension and the Panel determines, after reviewing MPRP’s recommendation,
that the Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine, then the Respondent will be placed
on probation for a minimum period of two years under terms and conditions that the Panel finds
appropriate. .
ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the order for summary suspension on Dr. Benalcazar’s license, issued on
July 2, 2021, and affirmed in a final decision and order on August 1, 2022, will be terminated as
moot upon the reinstatement of the Respondent’s expired license under Health Occ. § 14-317!%

and it is further

'6 The Respondent’s license expired on September 30, 2022. In order for the summary suspension
to be terminated, the Respondent must apply for the reinstatement of his lapsed license and the
license must be administratively reinstated. See Health Occ. § 14-317; COMAR 10.32.01.11.
Also, for sanctioning purposes, the expiration of the Respondent’s license does not prevent the
Panel from sanctioning him — a license does not lapse by operation of law while the individual is
under investigation or while charges are pending. Health Occ. § 14-403(a).

51

 
 

ORDERED that Dr. Benalcazar is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Benalcazar’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), for a minimum period of ONE
YEAR," commencing when the Respondent’s Maryland medical license is reinstated under
Health Occ. § 14-317. During the suspension, Dr. Benalcazar shall comply with the following
conditions of suspension:

1. During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of medical
services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider number
by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care
facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

2. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days from the commencement of the minimum one-year suspension,
the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days from the commencement of the minimum one-year
suspension, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals,
rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP; .

'7 If the Respondent’s license expires while he is under suspension under this Final Decision and

Order on Amended Charges, the suspension and suspension terms and conditions will be tolled.
COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).

$2

 
(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by
the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information to MPRP. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities verbal and written
information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive
the health care records of the Respondent. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

!
:

 

(f) if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation program
in another state, the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or condition of that
state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this Final Decision and Order on
| Amended Charges (“Final Decision and Order’). The Respondent shall also sign any out-

of-state written release/consent forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (ie.,
| disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state program verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
and alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw the
release/consent; and

 

(g) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions including
terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Final Decision and Order; and

3. Within six months, the Respondent is required to take and successfully complete
courses in (1) boundaries, and (2) professionalism. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
Panel’s approval of the courses before the courses begin;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the Panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the courses;

(c) the courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal; and

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the courses; and it is further
ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Final Decision and

Order; and it is further

53
 

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of the
suspension and the minimum period of suspension imposed by this Final Decision and Order has
passed, the Respondent may petition the Board for the termination of the suspension. A Board
disciplinary panel will consider a recommendation from MPRP on whether it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine. A disciplinary panel will then determine whether
the suspension is terminated. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary
panel to discuss his petition. Ifa disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent
to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension imposed under this Final Decision and Order
will be terminated and the Respondent will be placed on probation for a minimum of TWO
YEARS under terms and conditions the disciplinary panel determines are appropriate. The
probation will also be under the customary terms and conditions applied to probation. If, after
considering MPRP’s recommendation, the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall remain in effect under the
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel finds reasonable and appropriate under the
circumstances; and it is further

ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order goes into effect when it is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board, but the minimum one-year suspension commences and the
summary suspension is terminated when the Respondent’s license is reinstated through the
administrative reinstatement application process. The Executive Director signs this Final Decision
and Order on behalf of Pane! B; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms

and conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further

54
ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Final Decision and Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If a disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if a disciplinary panel
determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the
Respondent has. failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Final Decision and
Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation
with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke
the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition
to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent;
and it is further

ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§

1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

° °
Signature On File
O5 118 /2023 a
Date Christine A. Fane eu Director j
Maryland State Board of\Physicians

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO APPEAL
Pursuant to § 14-408(a) of the Health Occupations Article, the Respondent has the right to

seek judicial review of this final decision and order. Any petition for judicial review must be filed

55
 

in court within 30 days from the date this final decision and order was sent to the Respondent. The
final decision and order was sent on the date that it was issued. The petition for judicial review
must be made as directed in the Maryland Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-222, and Maryland Rules 7-201 ef seq.

If the Respondent petitions for judicial review of this final decision and order, the Board is
a party and should be served with the court’s process. Also, a copy of the petition for judicial
review should be sent to the Maryland Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215. In addition, the Respondent should send a copy of the petition for judicial review
to the Board’s counsel, David Wagner, Assistant Attorney General, Office of the Attorney General,
300 W. Preston Street, Suite 302, Baltimore, Maryland 21201 and by email at
david.wagner@maryland.gov The administrative prosecutors are not involved in the circuit court

process and does not need to be served or copied on pleadings filed in circuit court.

56

sens ORNs mca en: cpeamtEce se
c. The Respondent would ask her about her sex life with her fiancée. He
would talk to her about the size of his genitals and offer comparisons of
his genitals to surgical instruments.

d. The Respondent would look down her shirt and other staff member’s
shirts and comment on their undergarments. He would state to her,
“You're wearing my favorite bra.” She stated she would offer only short
responses or state that she was not in the mood for his behavior.

 

e. During Halloween season the Respondent would show her pictures of
provocative costumes on his phone suggesting that she should wear them.
She stated that there were multiple times when the Respondent would
take pictures of her with his phone. He would remove her eyewear and
photograph her eyes. He said he wanted to “stare at them later.”

f. On April 19, 2017, she witnessed the Respondent hit a patient’s buttocks
after making inappropriate comments about the patient’s body while the
patient was anesthetized and lying face down on the operating table. “He
just started commenting about how nice her butt looked, especially in this
position that we had her in for surgery...he proceeded to say her butt
looked so good I just needed to be smacked...and before we knew it, he
did it. He smacked her butt. Started giggling.”

 

g. The Respondent would talk about getting people fired which caused
Complainant 2 to be afraid to report him. She stated that she asked her
supervisors to change her schedule but did not state that it was because
of the Respondent. She believed that her supervisors knew the reason that
she wanted to change because she had told them many times before about
how uncomfortable she was, but they would never ask why.

Individual 3

13.On or about February 5, 2021, Board staff conducted an interview with
Individual 3, an administrative assistant, who had worked with the Respondent
since he started practicing at the Hospital. In her under-oath interview,

Individual 3 stated:
 

 

 

a.

Individual 4

The Respondent behaves in a manner that is very arrogant, very pompous
and womanizing. Multiple staff members reported to her that they were
uncomfortable working with him.

Complainant 2 expressed to her multiple times that she did not like the
Respondent and did not want to work with him but was initially wary of
reporting him out of fear of losing her job.

She observed once instance where the Respondent was interacting with
Complainant 2 and said to her, “I’d like to put you over my knee and
spank you, spank you, spank you...and she just rolled her eyes and
walked away.”

14. On or about February 11, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview

with Individual 4, an Operating Room Secretary who previously worked with

the Respondent. In her interview, Individual 4 stated:

a.

Individual 5

She changed her work schedule to avoid the Respondent after his
interactions with her started to become “eerie.” The Respondent would
call her by a nickname “Strawberry” and began bringing her coffee
without her asking him to do so. He began calling her frequently when
she was working and texting her personal cell phone. The Respondent
would make comments about her body and her attire. In one instance he
stated “for a skinny girl, you have a nice butt.”

The Respondent once telephoned her at work while he was sitting a short
distance away from her and asked her to come sit on his lap.

. While she was walking down a hallway, the Respondent grabbed her and

pulled her into an office and closed the door. “I said no, eight times super
loud before he let me out of that room.” She stated that the Respondent
had an erection and was trying to get her to sit on his lap and touch it.

The Respondent once followed her to her car while screaming her name.
She ran to her car and called a friend who worked in security and asked
him to meet her at her car so that she could hide for a few minutes.
15.On or about March 5, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
Individual 5, a nurse who previously worked with the Respondent. In her

interview, Individual 5 stated:

a. She worked in the O.R. with the Respondent and found him to be
disrespectful, inappropriate, and unprofessional.

b. In 2017 she was present in the O.R. when the Respondent slapped the
buttocks of the anesthetized patient referenced above. She reported the
incident because “that’s not typical behavior of a surgeon.”

c. Working in the O.R. with the Respondent made her feel “impaired”
because in addition to her responsibilities to the patient she had to worry
about avoiding conversations with the Respondent, which is impossible
in a surgical area, but the Respondent’s conduct made it a very difficult
working environment.

Individual 6

16.On or about February 2, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview

with Individual 6, a technologist who previously worked with the Respondent.

In her interview, Individual 6 stated:

a. At the beginning of her time working with the Respondent she was told
by colleagues “you'll be fine” working with the Respondent because “he
just likes being around pretty women.” Individual 6 stated that she
understood that to mean that she should be “on guard” while working
with the Respondent.

b. She described the Respondent as “very touchy,” and stated that he
attempted to massage her neck on multiple occasions. The Respondent
would touch other staff members on their lower backs and would make
inappropriate comments about patients’ bodies.

c. She observed the Respondent getting “really close” and whispering to
Complainant 2. Individual 6 stated that this made her feel uncomfortable,
so she looked away and started working on her computer. After the
Respondent left the room Complainant 2 approached her and asked, “did
you see that?” Individual 6 responded that she did not because she was
looking away. Complainant 2 told Individual 6 that the Respondent “got
in [her] face,” and asked that in the future “please don’t turn around when
he gets this close to me.”
Individual 7

17. On or about March 4, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
Individual 7, a Hospital staff member who worked in the Respondent’s O.R. In
her interview, Individual 7 stated:

a. She knew the Respondent as a surgeon in the O.R. who made her feel
uncomfortable.

b. On one occasion, the Respondent remarked to her that she had a “cute
little butt that could squeeze through the doorway.”

c. Individual 4 told Individual 7 that the Respondent also made her feel
uncomfortable calling her by the nickname “Strawberry,” and on one
occasion had followed her into the parking garage.

Individual 8

18.On or about February 24, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview
with Individual 8, a nurse who worked with the Respondent. In her interview,
Individual 8 stated:

a. Many of her colleagues expressed a reluctance to work in the
Respondent’s O.R., and that she sometimes felt uncomfortable for others
because the Respondent tends to be very flirtatious.

b. She observed the Respondent asking Complainant 2 to go to the movies
with him and commenting on her body.

c. The last time she remembers working with Complainant 2 was when
Complainant 2 asked that Individual 8 not leave her alone in the O.R.
with the Respondent.

Individual 9

19.On or about January 11, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview

with Individual 9, a Physician Assistant who worked with the Respondent. In his
interview, Individual 9 stated:

a. They had a patient in the O.R. prepared for a surgical procedure when the

Respondent came into the room and did not like how Individual 9 had
prepared the patient’s buttocks area. The Respondent “starts slapping her

10
rear end and dancing around and...singing the butt song... ‘Baby’s Got
Back’, or something like that.”

b. He observed the Respondent constantly hugging staff, massaging their
necks, and asking them about their sex lives.

 

20. Board staff interviewed other current or former colleagues of the Respondent
who corroborated the Respondent’s reputation for being touchy with staff

members, and/or making inappropriate comments to staff members.

The Respondent

21.On or about May 21, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
the Respondent. In the interview, the Respondent stated:

a. He would typically greet staff when he arrived at the O.R. by touching
their cap or their neck and expected that staff would be comfortable
expressing their discomfort if they were so inclined.

b. There was non-sexual touching from both sides in his interactions with
Complainant |. He denied making unprofessional comments toward her
or telling her to put any surgical instruments into her mouth.

c. He acknowledged touching Complainant 2’s hands and neck at her
request because “touch is a calming thing.” He stated that none of his
comments to Complainant 2 were meant in a sexual way, and if they
talked about sex, it was primarily in the context of her pregnancy.

d. Complainant 2 asked him to examine her for joint dysfunction and he did
so to be courteous but will not ever do so again. He took her into a room
to examine her because it was not appropriate to do it in the hallway. He
asked her to loosen her waistband and pull it down a little bit. Afterwards,
Complainant 2 seemed to be thankful, not offended.

e. He denied pulling Individual 4 into an empty office and trying to make
her touch his erection.

f. In April 2017 he did not slap the patient’s buttocks but was illustrating to
staff that they had placed a frame in an incorrect position. “I said look,
the buttock tissue moves like this...you have to touch the tissue...it’s
moving here. Here it’s not moving.” He denied making any inappropriate
comments about the patient’s body.

 

11
 

22. Following this interview, Respondent’s counsel informed Board staff that the
Respondent had recalled additional information. A second under-oath interview
of the Respondent was conducted on May 25, 2021. In this interview, the

Respondent stated:

a. That he initially did not recall Individual 4 because he called her by her
nickname “Strawberry.” He acknowledged bringing her coffee and stated
that the two of them began a romantic relationship outside of work. He
recalled an occasion wherein he invited her into his administrative office,
and she drove there specifically to have an encounter with him. The
Respondent stated that he ended the relationship after Individual 4
demanded money from him.

b. He could not tell Board staff the whole truth in the first interview not
because he could not remember, but because he had to “put some type of
coherent thing together.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter
of law that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency
action in this case, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t. § 10-226(c)(2) (2014

Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. (““COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).
ORDER
It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by Md. Code
Ann., State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR_ 10.32.02.08B(7)(a), the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, is hereby

SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and be it further

12
ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7) on the Summary Suspension will be held on Wednesday, July 14,
2021, at 12:30 p.m. before Panel A at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201

Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation hearing before
Panel A, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request
within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30)
days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt

Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed
with the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014

Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Disciplinary Panel A, and, as such, is a
PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Provisions §4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

07/02/2021 .
Date Christine A. Farrelly 3 U

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

13
Attachment 2
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

HUGO BENALCAZAR, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D56356 * Case Number: 2221-0051
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
ON ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

On July 2, 2021, pursuant to § 10-226(c)(2) of the State Government Article, Md. Code
Ann., Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) issued an
Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, which immediately suspended
Respondent Hugo Benalcazar, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. On July 14,
2021, Disciplinary Panel A held a postdeprivation hearing on the summary suspension and, on
July 15, 2021, affirmed the summary suspension.

On October 4, 7, and 8, 2021, a contested case, evidentiary hearing was held before an
Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) at the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”). The
State presented the following witnesses: a Compliance Analyst of the Board; Complainant 1, a
registered nurse, Complainant 2, a surgical technologist; Individual 3, an Operating Room
(“O.R.”) unit secretary; Individual 4, an O.R. unit secretary; and Individual 9, a physician
assistant. The Respondent did not present any testimony or witnesses at the OAH hearing. On
December 15, 2021, the ALJ issued a proposed decision recommending that the Order for
Summary Suspension be reversed.

Both the State and the Respondent filed exceptions. The State filed exceptions arguing

that the ALJ’s finding—that any threat that the Respondent may have posed had been
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Hugo Benalcazar
Letter of Surrender

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license in
Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event
that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor

is not required to grant reinstatement, and, if it does grant reinstatement, Panel B or its successor
may impose any terms and conditions Panel B or its successor considers appropriate for public
safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that,
if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position
as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel B's actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this

decision knowingly and voluntarily.
Very truly yours,

Signature On File

(dugo Benalcazar, M.D.
ameliorated by the time the summary suspension was issued—was unsound. The Respondent’s
exceptions focus on his claim that the ALJ did not properly address his contention that
exculpatory evidence was purposely not presented to the Board panel before the panel issued the
order summarily suspending his license. Both parties filed a reply to the opposing party’s
exceptions.

On March 23, 2022, an exceptions hearing was held before Board Disciplinary Panel B
(“Panel B” or the “Panel’”).

I. FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds that the following facts were proven by the preponderance of evidence:

1, The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
August 3, 2000. The Respondent continually had his license renewed, and he was authorized to
practice medicine in Maryland from August 2000 until his medical license was summarily
suspended on July 2, 2021. The conduct of the Respondent that is the focus of this case occurred
while he was licensed by the Board. The Respondent is male.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in neurological surgery.

3. The Respondent has practiced neurosurgery, physical therapy, and pain
management in Maryland. The Respondent has held privileges at four hospitals in Maryland.
Complainant 1

4, Complainant 1, a female, has been a registered nurse for over 20 years and works
in the O.R. as a registered nurse.' Complainant 1 worked at a hospital in Maryland (the
“Hospital”) from May 2004 until October 2018.

' The Panel has used generic terms for individuals and facilities where possible in order protect
their reasonable expectation of privacy and for patients, their confidentiality. In addition, this

case involves issues of sexual harassment and inappropriate sexual conduct, and thus the Panel
does its best to keep the names of the victims confidential.

2
5. In 2013, Complainant 1 was working at the Hospital with the Respondent treating
a patient. They were using a 3D navigational system instrument that had silver balls. At the end
of the procedure, the balls fell on the floor. Complainant 1 picked up some of them off the floor
and put them in the Respondent’s pocket. The Respondent then said to Complainant 1, “Why
don’t you put them in your mouth?” Complainant 1 responded, “[T]hat is gross.” Later that day,
Complainant 1 was working in a computer area in the Hospital, and the Respondent walked over
to her and placed his hand through the V-neck opening of her scrub shirt, and he placed his hand
on Complainant 1’s chest. He did not touch Complainant 1’s breasts.

6. Complainant | reported the incidents to the Hospital’s perioperative director at the
and the two of them had a meeting with the Respondent. The Hospital took no action against the
Respondent at this time, and Complainant | felt her concerns were not taken seriously by the
perioperative director or by the Respondent.

7. The Respondent made other inappropriate comments to Complainant 1, for
instance, stating to Complainant 1 that he could see her bra straps and underwear.

Complainant 2

8. Complainant 2, a female, is a surgical technologist. Complainant 2 works at the
Hospital. She began working at the Hospital in June 2015.

9. Complainant 2 previously worked in the O.R. with the Respondent two days per
week.

10. In 2016, Complainant 2 had lower back pain while she was pregnant. On one
occasion, Complainant 2 was in the O.R. and mentioned her pain to one of her colleagues. The
Respondent overheard and offered to examine her in between cases. The Respondent escorted

her into a Hospital room and closed the door. No one else was in the room. Complainant 2
turned so the Respondent was behind her, so she could point to where the pain was. He asked
her to raise her shirt, which she did, about midway up her back. The Respondent placed his
hands on her waist and started to feel her lower back with his thumbs while asking her where the
pain was. The Respondent then asked her to lower her pants. She lowered her pants about
halfway down her buttocks. The Respondent then commented on how good Complainant 2
looked from behind and that her underwear was “very cute.” The Respondent was giggling.
Complainant 2 felt she was being taken advantage of, so she lifted her pants back up and left the
room.

11. | When Complainant 2 came back from maternity leave in October 2016, she
worked with the Respondent two days per week, Mondays and Wednesdays. She maintained this
schedule until May 2017. The Respondent asked her about her sex life with her fiancé and told
her that she would have a better time with him than with her fiancé. The Respondent also
physically touched her on days that they worked together. The touching was unwanted by
Complainant 2. He stroked her neck and massaged it. He also grabbed Complainant’s 2’s hair
and then would use it to turn her head. He showed her pictures of other women wearing risqué
Halloween costumes and said that he would love to see her in these costumes. The Respondent
physically grabbed Complainant 2 and pulled her close to him. He made comments about her
bra. At the scrub sink, the Respondent embraced her from behind. He felt her legs to see
whether she had shaved her legs. Complainant 2 testified, “I would describe it as it was a daily
occurrence. Every day he physically touched me. He verbally harassed me every day, every
shift I was there with him.” (T. 239.)

12, On April 19, 2017, Complainant 2 observed the Respondent slap the buttocks of

an anesthetized patient (“Patient 1”).
13. The Respondent talked about how he could get people fired, which caused
Complainant 2 to be afraid to report him. Complainant 2 stated that she asked her supervisors to
change her schedule but did not state that it was because of the Respondent. She believed that
her supervisors knew the reason that she wanted to change because she had told them many
times before about how uncomfortable she was, but the supervisor did not ask for the reason.
Ultimately, Complainant 2 was able to get her schedule changed so she did not have to work with
the Respondent any longer. On October 16, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a complaint with the
Hospital’s Human Resources department.

Patient 1

14. On April 19, 2017, a female patient, Patient 1, was in the O.R. and unconscious
after being anesthetized. Patient 1 was positioned for a lumbar procedure on her spinal column.
Patient | was lying on her abdomen, face down, and her buttocks were fully exposed. From her
neck to her feet there were no clothes or sheets covering her. The Respondent came into the
room and did not like the way a physician assistant had taped the skin of the patient, and the
Respondent ripped the tape off the patient. The Respondent made comments about how good
Patient 1 looked and that her buttocks looked great. The Respondent then forcefully slapped
Patient 1’s buttocks, which made a loud noise. The Respondent then sang the verse “Baby Got
Back” and was giggling. The Respondent told Individual 9 (a physician assistant) to re-tape the
patient. At least three O.R. workers witnessed this incident: Individual 9, Complainant 2, and
Individual 5. There was no medical justification for the Respondent to slap the patient’s
buttocks.

Individual] 3
15. Individual 3 is a O.R. unit secretary at the Hospital, and she has worked at the
Hospital for 21 years.

16. Individual 3 observed that Complainant 2 had a lot of issues involving the
Respondent regarding “offhand, off-color, sexual comments” the Respondent made. Individual 3
witnessed the Respondent and Complainant 2 come out the O.R. after a case and the Respondent
glared at Complainant 2 and said to her, “I’d like to put you over my knee and spank you, spank
you, spank you.” (T. 381.)

17. Individual 3 testified that “[pJeople were a little leery of going to anyone about his
behavior because they felt that nothing would be addressed.” (T. 382.) Individual 3 further
explained, “I think there was -- a lot of people were afraid that with his -- that they would get
fired if they tried to bring something to the forefront about him.” (/d.)

Individual 4

18. Individual 4, a female, began working at the Hospital in 2013. In 2015,
Individual 4 began working as an O.R. unit secretary. At the time of the evidentiary hearing,
Individual 4 was no longer working at the Hospital. The Respondent often called Individual 4
“Strawberry.”

19, One time at work, the Respondent was sitting at a desk close to where Individual
4 was sitting, and the Respondent called Individual 4 on her desk telephone and asked Individual
4 “to sit on his lap.” (T. 319.) On another occasion, the Respondent told Individual 4 that, for a
skinny girl, she had a “nice butt.” (T. 329.)

20. On another occasion, Individual 4 was walking down a Hospital hallway, and the
Respondent grabbed her wrist, led her into an office, and closed the door. No one else was in the

office. The Respondent then aggressively asked Individual 4 to touch his penis, The

 
Respondent asked eight times for Individual 4 to touch his penis. She “said no quite a few
times.” Individual 4 was “petrified.” (T. 325.) Individual 4 did manage to leave the office
without touching Respondent’s penis. Individual 4 told her best friend at work about this
incident. Individual 4 also spoke to the Hospital’s perioperative director about her concerns
about the Respondent, although Individual 4 does not recall how specific she was. Individual 4
did not think her concerns were properly handled by the perioperative director.

21. Individual 4 explained before the ALJ why she had not reported these incidents to
the Hospital’s Human Resources department: “Fear, knowing that he had said to people before
that he, you know, kind of had control over jobs.”

22. Individual 4 and the Respondent were never in a romantic relationship together
and never had sex with each other, Individual 4 never demanded money from the Respondent,
and Individual 4 did not send a racy photograph of herself to the Respondent.

Individual 5

23. Individual 5, a female, worked as a registered nurse at the Hospital. Individual 5
worked in the O.R. with the Respondent when she worked at the Hospital. Individual 5 now
works at a surgery center at another facility.

24. — In April 2017, Individual 5 observed the Respondent slap the buttocks of Patient
1. Individual 5 noticed that everyone who saw him slap the patient looked shocked. Individual
5 was interviewed by Board staff and said, “You know, that’s not typical behavior of a surgeon,
at least not a good one, and I do remember reporting it.” Individual 5 reported the incident to the
charge nurse, but stated, “And I don’t know that anything after that point was ever done.”

(State’s Ex. 15, T. 10.)
25. Working in the O.R with the Respondent was impairing for Individual 5.
Individual 5 explained:

I don’t want to say it impairs you 100 percent, but you definitely are —
are impaired, because you’re also worried about how you have to avoid
another conversation with a surgeon — which is impossible to avoid when
you’re working in a surgical area like that, because you need to talk to
him, you need to have open communication, and you kind of have to
forget those things happened, and treat every day like a new day, and
that’s really difficult when you do experience things and know things
that have happened.
Individual 6

26. Individual 6, a female, worked at the Hospital as a neuromonitoring tech for
approximately two years, from 2015 to 2017.

27. The Respondent tried to give Individual 6 a neck massage at least twice.
Individual 9

28. Individual 9 is a surgical physician assistant for surgery. He has been a physician
assistant since 1993. Individual 9 was employed by the Respondent from July 2016 to
November 2017. He has worked for the Hospital since December 2017.

29. In April 2017, Individual 9 was in the O.R. with Patient 1, when Patient 1 was
anesthetized, and the Respondent came into the room. Individual 9 testified that the Respondent
was “slapping [the patient’s] rear end and dancing around and saying -- like singing the butt song
[“Baby’s Got Back”] or whatever.” (State’s Ex. 7, T. 16.)

30. Individual 9 also observed the Respondent constantly hugging staff, massaging
their necks, and asking them about their sex lives.

Proceedings

31. In June 2018, counsel for Complainant 2 sent a letter (“Demand Letter’) to the

Respondent stating that the Respondent had sexually harassed Complainant 2. The Demand
Letter attached draft filings with the EEOC and a circuit court in Maryland. The Demand Letter
asked for five million dollars in exchange for Complainant 2 not filing actions and complaints
against the Respondent. The Respondent did not pay Complainant 2.

32. On October 4, 2018, Complainant 2 met with a person from the Hospital’s Human
Resources department and the Hospital’s perioperative director to discuss the Respondent’s
behavior.

33. In October 12, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a lawsuit in a circuit court in Maryland
against the Respondent, the Respondent’s private practice, and the Hospital, alleging sexual
harassment, assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.”

34. On October 16, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a formal complainant against the
Respondent with the Hospital’s Human Resources department.

35. As a result of the lawsuit filed in circuit court, the Hospital’s Performance
Improvement Committee appointed an Ad Hoc Committee to investigate the allegations in the
lawsuit against the Respondent. The Ad Hoc Committee interviewed the Respondent and a
number of other individuals involved in the surgical units of the Hospital. The Ad Hoc
Committee wrote that it did not consider the incident in which the Respondent slapped the
buttocks of Patient 1, because the incident “involved a patient” and thus the Ad Hoc Committee
“did not consider this incident to be within the specific scope of its investigation,” but the report
did state that the Respondent “acknowledged the incident, though he explained it by saying that
he was not happy with the way the patient was taped, removed the tape and moved the patient’s
buttocks.” The report also did not reference the incident involving Individual 4 in which the
Respondent tried to get her to touch his penis. But the report did mention that two Hospital
employees stated that the Respondent put his hands around the neck of a female staff member,

? At the time of the evidentiary hearing at OAH, the lawsuit was still ongoing.
9
and one of those employees stated that the Respondent refused to let go “even when she asked
him to.” The report further stated that Complainant 2 had not previously reported incidents of
inappropriate behavior to the Human Resources department because “she feared losing her job or
other repercussions.” The report also mentioned that, in addition to Complainant 2, other
employees interviewed said that the Hospital O.R. had a culture that was inhospitable to
complaints against physicians.
36. On March 6, 2019, the Hospital issued the Respondent a Letter of Reprimand.
The Letter of Reprimand stated:
Based on the investigation, the Ad Hoc Committee, Performance
Improvement Committee, and Medical Executive Committee concluded
that you had behaved inappropriately towards members of the Hospital
staff by inappropriate touching female employees and by making
inappropriate comments of a sexual nature to female employees. The
Committees felt that you lacked an appreciation for how your behavior
was perceived and exercised extremely poor judgment in your lack of
appreciation for appropriate boundaries of professional behavior. Your
behavior and words were seriously inappropriate.
The Hospital required the Respondent to attend a course in Professional Boundaries and advised
the Respondent that his behavior would be “monitored. However, any further reports of this type
of unacceptable behavior, at any time in the future, would be reviewed for additional disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of medical staff appointment and/or clinical privileges.”
The Letter of Reprimand further stated that the Letter of Reprimand “will not be reported to the
Maryland Board of Physicians” and that “this action does not constitute grounds for a hearing.”
37. On August 30, 2020, the Board received a complaint from Complainant ! (dated
August 25, 2020). In her complaint, Complainant 1 alleged that, when she worked with the
Respondent at the Hospital, the Respondent behaved inappropriately, both verbally and

physically, with Complainant 1 and other female staff members.

10
38, On November 30, 2020, the Board received two complaints from Complainant 2
against the Respondent. In the first November 30, 2020 complaint (dated November 19, 2020),
Complainant 2 described an incident in which the Respondent slapped the buttocks of Patient 1.
In the second November 30, 2020 complaint (dated November 19, 2020), she stated that the
Respondent was inappropriate when examining her for lower back pain. On December 29, 2020,
the Board received a third complaint (dated Nov. 19, 2020) from Complainant 2 against the
Respondent, detailing an instance when Complainant 2 was orienting a new surgical technologist
at the Hospital and the Respondent stroked her neck. Complainant 2 felt “extremely
uncomfortable” and “embarrassed.” The complaint also indicated that the Respondent touched
her multiple times a day when they worked together, that she did not like it, and that she did not
know what to do about it.

39. On July 2, 2021, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board issued the Respondent the
Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine.

40. | The Respondent presented a substantial likelihood of risk of serious harm to the
public health, safety and welfare. Thus, the order for summary suspension was imperatively

required to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, under State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2).

Il, CREDIBILITY
The Respondent did not testify at the OAH hearing, but, on May 21, 2021, and, on May
25, 2021, he was interviewed by Board compliance analysts. When the Respondent was
interviewed by the Board’s compliance analysts, he denied slapping or spanking Patient 1’s
buttocks. He said that he was pushing the tissue on her buttocks to show the O.R. staff where to
place the frame of a navigational instrument, indicating that the frame should not be placed on

fatty tissue where it would be unstable. The Panel does not find his denial credible.

il

 
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Hugo Benalcazar
Letter of Surrender

NOTARY

STATE OF {DY land :
CITY/COUNTY OF 2RUNCC Geot be S

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 1Y day of Marth — ,2024 before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Hugo Benalcazar, M.D., and declared
and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was his
voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

“Mn Richy

Notary Public

My commission expires: Pal \3 | 20 Za

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this Zs & day of Math, ,2024, I, Christine A. Farrelly,
accept Hugo Benalcazar, M,D.'s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of his license to practice medicine in

the State of Maryland.
Signature On File

Christine A. Farrefly\ Executive Directgr,
Maryland Board of PhySicidns
The Respondent’s statements have been inconsistent on this matter. The Hospital’s Ad
Hoc Committee investigation report states that the Respondent “acknowledged the incident,
though he explained it by saying that he was not happy with the way the patient was taped,
removed the tape and moved the patient’s buttocks.” Individual 9 also said that the Respondent
was upset at how the patient was taped. The Respondent’s testimony during his interview with
the Board’s compliance analysts in which he stated that he was showing the O.R. staff where to
place a navigational instrument’s frame conflicts with his statement to the Hospital’s Ad Hoc
Committee.

Moreover, the Respondent’s version during his interview is contradicted by three
eyewitnesses to the incident: Complainant 2, Individual 5, and Individual 9. (Individual 5 did not
testify at the hearing, but she was interviewed by the Board’s compliance analysts.) The Panel
credits the testimony of Complainant 2, Individual 9, and Individual 5, who each testified that he
slapped and/or smacked the patient’s buttocks. Individual 9 said the Respondent was “joking
around” and sang the verse of “Baby Got Back.” (State’s Ex. 7, T. 18.) Complainant 2 testified
that the Respondent was making comments about how good [Patient 1] looked for her age, that
she was in great shape, and that her backside looked great. (T. 247.) Complainant 2 also testified
that she was “in complete disbelief.” (Jd.) Individual 5 testified, “it felt extremely
unprofessional and that’s why I reported it.” (State’s Ex. 15, T. 12.) There were some
differences with the details of the incidents between these three witnesses, but those
discrepancies are relatively minor and understandable considering how shocking the
Respondent’s conduct was to the witnesses.

Concerning Individual 4, when the Respondent was interviewed by the Board compliance

analysts, he denied the incident involving Individual 4 in which Individual 4 testified that the

12

 
Respondent repeatedly asked her to touch his penis. In fact, when the Respondent was initially
interviewed, he initially denied even knowing who Individual 4 was:

Q. Are you familiar with [Individual 4]?

[The Respondent] A. No.

Q. Okay. She was an OR — or she is an OR secretary at [the
Hospital]. You have no recollection of her, [Individual 4]?

[COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT]: [Spells the last name of
Individual 4}?
[COMPLIANCE ANALYST]: Correct.
[COMPLIANCE ANALYST]: [Blank in transcript]

[The Respondent] A. I don’t.

Q. Okay. [Individual 4] reported that she changed her schedule at [the
Hospital] in order to avoid you after you began bringing her coffee,
started calling her by the name Strawberry, commenting on her body and
clothes and again texting and calling her personnel cell phone. Do you
have any — can you respond to that, or you have no recollection of who
she is?

A. No. I do —I do recall that we had a — again, a playful relationship
there which I thought was mutual.

Q. Okay. She stated that she told you that it made her uncomfortable,
asked you to stop bringing her coffee and began wearing jackets to avoid
your comments. Were you bringing her coffee?

A. Ihave very little recollection of this but certainly possible that that
would be the case. And if anyone asked me to stop bringing them

coffee, I would stop bringing them coffee.
* * *

 

I
'
i
|
'
I

 

Q. Okay. And you don’t remember anybody that you would call by
the nickname Strawberry?
A. No. I do-—JI do recall that. I called her that once because her hair
was red.
. Okay.
. And I said your hair looks like a strawberry.
. Okay. And do you remember if that was [Individual 4]?
. Idon’t remember.
. Okay.
A. I don’t remember the name.

2

A
Q
A
Q

(State’s Ex. 19, T. 58-61.)
After the interview, however, counsel for the Respondent contacted a Board compliance
analyst and said that after the Respondent had time to reflect on the interview, he was able to

recall additional important information regarding Individual 4. A second interview, therefore,

13
was held four days after the first. At the second interview, the Respondent provided the
following testimony:

The, other person was [Individual 4] and [Individual 4], you know,
first of all, the allegation, never happened, never, I didn’t understand that
whole thing at all, but there is more to [Individual 4] that’s very
important, again, for context.

[Individual 4], I, I would bring coffee to [Individual 4]. I didn’t
know what kind of coffee she liked, you know, and people are very
particular about their coffee, so [Individual 4] would tell me what coffee
she wanted. This isn’t something where I’m forcing coffee on someone.

And that sort of sparked a friendly relationship at the hospital and that
friendly relationship morphed into a romantic relationship outside of the
hospital.

And on one occasion she drove to my administrative office, which is
about a mile or so away from the hospital, after hours, specifically to
have an encounter with me. She drove her own car, you know, I wasn’t
there with her.

And, and that lasted a very short time, but the reason that it ended was
strictly on ~ I ended it. And the reason it ended was because she made a
demand for money to me and that, you know, freaked me out. I was
extremely concerned, obviously, because there was no talk of that at all.

And obviously it is an implied threat to me, and so, and so that’s how
it ended.

a ee

Q. But you had a sexual relationship with her?

[The Respondent] A. We had a romantic relationship, yes.

. Okay. And when you say romantic, was there sexual intercourse?
. Well, yes, there was.

Okay.

. The one time.

* * *

. Mm-hmm. And how did she end up coming to the office?

. Oh, I, probably I invited her there.

>O Pore

(State’s Ex. 20, T. 6-10.) The Respondent then said there was no specific amount of money that
was requested by Individual 4. The Respondent then testified that he communicated with
Individual 4 by phone, by text, and by Snapchat. Later in the interview, the discussion turned
back to the first interview when he denied knowing who Individual 4 was:

[BOARD COMPLIANCE ANALYST]: I guess you’re talking about
someone that you had sex with that threatened you and we, you know,

14
gave some reference to and that you didn’t remember it on Friday, that’s
what I’m just kind of confused about.

[THE RESPONDENT]: Yeah; no, I, it’s not that I didn’t remember it,
it’s that I couldn’t, I have to put some kind of coherent thing together,
you know, for you guys.

I have to — you want the whole truth and, you know, I, I probably
should have asked for a break or something like that, but the next thing I
know we were ending and my mind was, you know, running around all
over the place.

So, you know, [Individual 4] is not a name I used and so that threw
me off, the allegation is barbarous and untrue and threw me off.

So, yeah, this isn’t like I had forgot this person, but it is something
where if I started talking at that moment, I don’t think I could have put,
put two and two together. And I didn’t want to do that, so.

And there is one other thing, too, and that is that, that this person sent
me a picture of herself which is, let’s just say, highly suggestive and,
again, I just want to underscore the sort of consenting mutual aspect of
the relationship.

BY [BOARD COMPLIANCE ANALYST]

Q. When did she send you a suggestive picture?

A. Pretty much right before she — my best recollection is pretty much
right before she asked me for the money.

Q. And I know it’s been awhile, do you have any proof of her asking
for the money or anything like that?

A. I don’t think I have any proof of her asking for the money, but I do
have the picture that she sent.

(State’s Exhibit 20, T. 13-14.)

At the evidentiary hearing before the ALJ, Individual 4 testified. Individual 4 testified
that she had not been in a relationship with the Respondent, that she had not had sex with him,
and did not ask him for money. On cross examination, Individual 4 did state that she had had a
traumatic brain injury and thus could not be 100 percent positive of her recollections, but that she
did not have any recollection of a relationship, sex, or money discussions with the Respondent.
On cross examination, she was shown the racy photograph. Individual 4 acknowledged that the
photograph was of her but said that she did not send it to the Respondent. She testified that she
and an anesthesiologist at the Hospital sent photographs to each other. On redirect, Individual 4

was asked about how the photograph could have come into the possession of the Respondent:

15
Q. Now, just to clarify, do you know how Dr. Benalcazar would have
come into possession of that picture of you?
[Individual 4] A. Like I said, the only reasonable explanation I can
come up with is that someone else showed him, gave it to him. I’m not —
that’s the only reasonable explanation I have.
(T. 371-72.)
The Panel does not find the Respondent’s testimony regarding Individual 4 trustworthy.
When he was initially interviewed by the Board compliance analysts, he denied even knowing
who Individual 4 was. When he was interviewed the second time, he explained that he had not
forgotten who Individual 4 was when he was asked about her in the first interview, but he was
not about to “put some kind of coherent thing together.” He further said, “So, yeah, this isn’t like
I had forgot this person, but it is something where if I started talking at that moment, I don’t
think I could have put, put two and two together. And I didn’t want to do that, so.” The Panel
finds that the Respondent simply lied to the Board compliance analysts. At first, he denied even
knowing who she was, and then four days later he stated that he had a romantic relationship with
her, had sex with her, that she threatened him for money, and that he has a racy photograph of
her. The extent to which he deliberately gave false statements to the Board compliance analysts
indicates that his statements are not reliable. The Panel finds that the Respondent is not credible.
The evidence in this case does not indicate that he had sexual intercourse with Individual 4, does
not indicate that she demanded money from him, and does not indicate that she sent him the racy
photograph. The Panel cannot find that Individual 4 fabricated information when she was
interviewed or testified before the ALJ. In determining which of these two individuals the Panel
relies upon, the only reasonable determination is to believe Individual 4 over the Respondent.

The Panel finds Individual 4’s testimony credible.

I. EXCEPTIONS

16
1. STATE’S EXCEPTIONS

A. Whether the Respondent Posed a Continuing Danger Requiring
the Order for Summary Suspension

The State took exception to the ALJ’s finding that the Respondent did not pose a danger
at the time the order for summary suspension was issued. The crux of the ALJ’s decision is that
any real danger the Respondent may have posed had disappeared by the time the order for
summary suspension was issued. The ALJ found that there is no evidence of the Respondent’s
misconduct after he was issued a Letter of Reprimand from the Hospital, demonstrating, to the
ALJ, that the Letter of Reprimand by the Hospital was sufficient to suppress any threat of serious
harmful conduct by the Respondent. There are, however, a number of flaws in the ALJ’s
proposed finding.

To support the finding that the order for summary suspension was not imperatively
required, the ALJ attempted to distinguish the Mullan case. Board of Physician Quality
Assurance v, Mullan, 381 Md. 157, 173 (2004). In Mullan, the Board summarily suspended the
license of a pediatrician, Dr. Mullan, because Dr. Mullan treated patients while intoxicated. Id.
at 161. The Court of Appeals affirmed the summary suspension. Jd. at 173. The ALJ’s
reasoning in the Respondent’s case was that no new allegations of wrongdoing after the Letter of
Reprimand was issued demonstrated no continuing danger. The ALJ contrasted that to Mullan,
finding that, in Mudlan, unlike in the Respondent’s case, “there was no evidence that the situation
had been ameliorated in any way.” (ALJ’s Proposed Decision (“PD”) at 13.) In Mullan,
however, there was only one episode of proven wrongdoing, which was that, on one day, April
10, 2000, Dr. Mullan treated patients while intoxicated. There were no complaints of Dr. Mullan

treating patients while intoxicated other than the one complaint about April 10, 2000, which

17
actually led the Court of Special Appeals to “reverse[ ] the Board’s finding that summary
suspension was ‘imperatively required.’” Mullan, 381 Md. at 162.

The approach taken by the Court of Special Appeals was the same taken by the ALJ in
the Respondent’s case. The Court of Special Appeals had found that the lack of complaints
between complaint to the Board and the order to summarily suspend “vitiated” any evidence that
the order for summary suspension was imperatively required. Mullan, 381 Md. at 161-62. The
Court of Appeals, in Mullan, then reversed the Court of Special Appeals, rejecting the reasoning
of the Court of Special Appeals. Jd. at 173. Thus, Mullan specifically rejects the approach and
reasoning applied by the ALJ in the Respondent’s case.

The Court of Appeals, in Mullan, explained why Dr. Mullan continued to pose a danger
requiring order for summary suspension despite there being only one day in which it was proven
that he saw patients while intoxicated:

When a pediatrician, with a history of severe alcoholism, renders

medical care to children while visibly intoxicated, he exhibits a

remarkable lack of sound judgment by his failure to decide not to see

patients on that day, even if he could not refrain from using alcohol.

Such a lack of sound judgment is sufficient evidence for a reasonable

Board to conclude the incident might repeat itself, requiring immediate

suspension of the doctor’s license and posing a danger that imperatively

requires emergency action.
Mullan, 381 Md. at 173. The Respondent demonstrated his remarkable lack of sound judgment
by his long-term sexual harassment and offensive touching.

The real difference between Mullan and the Respondent’s case is that Mullan
demonstrated his poor judgment on one day, while the Respondent’s deleterious behavior and

remarkable lack of sound judgment at the Hospital was evident on numerous occasions over the

course of years.

18
Additionally, the Respondent’s egregious, long-term behavior was a real distraction to the
medical professionals at the Hospital, jeopardizing the health, safety, and welfare of patients in
the Hospital. The Respondent jeopardized patient care because he degraded the Hospital
environment by being a distraction from the focus that is supposed to be on the practice of
medicine, and he impaired the “teamwork approach of health care in the which requires
participation from a variety of hospital personnel in order to deliver effective patient care.”
Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59, 75 (1999). The medical
professionals working with him on neurosurgery cases in the O.R. should be entirely focused on
the medical case, and should not have to worry about protecting themselves and the patients from
the Respondent’s improper behavior. Individual 5 described the negative effect the Respondent

had:

So, you know, your focus is just making sure that the patient is going to
come out okay and it definitely --I don’t want to say it impairs you 100
percent, but you definitely are — are impaired, because you’re also
worried about how you have to avoid another conversation with a
surgeon - which is impossible to avoid when you’re working in a
surgical area like that, because you need to talk to him, you need to have
open communication, and you kind of have to forget those things
happened, and treat every day like a new day, and that’s really difficult
when you do experience things and know things that have happened.

(State’s Ex. 15 at 33.)

And when the Respondent slapped Patient 1’s buttocks while she was completely
defenseless and when he pulled Individual 4 into a room and tried to make her touch his penis,
the Respondent demonstrated a mindset so depraved that the Panel finds that, at the time the
order for summary suspension was issued, there was a strong likelihood that this type of conduct
would be repeated. The record does not show that the Respondent’s mindset, which led him to

act in the manner he did against Patient 1 and Individual 4, had been improved to any significant

19

 
degree, which made him a continuing threat to cause serious harm, requiring the order for
summary suspension.?

The Panel finds that the ALJ placed far too much weight on the lack of additional reports
of misconduct occurring after the Letter of Reprimand, especially because the ALJ did not take
into account that the Hospital was disinclined to forcefully act on employee complaints brought
to its attention against the Respondent. It was only after allegations against the Respondent’s
conduct became a lawsuit, filed by Complainant 2 in circuit court against the Respondent and the
Hospital, that the Hospital moved to address his behavior. Complainant 1 thought that the
Hospital! did not take her complaints against the Respondent seriously. (T. 39-40.) This was also
expressed by Complainant 2. (T. 250.) Individual 4 did not believe her concerns about the
Respondent were properly handled by the Hospital’s perioperative director. Individual 5
reported the Respondent’s behavior to the charge nurse, and she testified, “where it went from
there, I don’t know.” (Ex. 15 at 36.) Individual 5 complained to the Hospital about the
Respondent, and she “was pretty much told to — to shut up and leave it alone . . . that there was
nothing we could do to — to really fix the situation at hand.” (Ex. 15 at 31.) And it is most likely
that the Hospital’s lenient handling of the Respondent imparted upon the Hospital employees that
the Hospital would not provide protection against the Respondent, further discouraging

complaints against him. In sum, the environment at, and lack of strong action by, the Hospital

> The Panel also certainly does not accept the ALJ’s statement that a dangerous situation may not
have ever existed. The ALJ wrote, “There was no evidence before the Board that a dangerous
situation, if one ever existed, continued at the time of the Order for Summary Suspension. (PD at
13) (italics added). There, however, were three eyewitnesses, at least, to Respondent slapping
the buttocks of Patient 1 while she was anesthetized. Patient 1 was slapped on her buttocks for
no medical reason. When the Respondent attempted to have a hospital employee touch his penis,
this was actual harm. The Panel does not accept the ALJ’s suggestion that there may never have
been a danger. There already was serious actual harm with actual victims.

20
certainly left the impression that any complaints against the Respondent would not result in
action that would properly address his conduct.

Even more, employees felt there could be retaliation against them for complaining about
the Respondent. This was expressed by Individual 3, Individual 4, and Complainant 2.
Complainant 2 felt there would have been a “target on [her] back” if she made these complaints
to the Hospital. In her interview, Complainant 2 stated that the Respondent “would mention
how he could get [Individual 5] fired.” (Ex. 5 at 8.) And the Respondent did his part to impart
upon Hospital personnel that he would retaliate against those who complained about him.
Individual 3 testified that the Hospital personnel were afraid to report him, because they felt he
could get them fired.

The incident in which the Respondent’s slapped Patient 1’s buttocks also militates against
placing too much weight on the lack of complaints after the Letter of Reprimand. Here, the
Respondent demonstrated that he is not above abusing someone who was not conscious. If he
engaged in this type of conduct again against someone who was not conscious and there was no
one else present to observe, it would not have been reported.

The Panel rejects the ALJ’s conclusion that the lack of complaints after the Hospital
issued the Letter of Reprimand meant that the Respondent’s conduct had been ameliorated. The
Panel gives minimal weight to the lack of further allegations after the Letter of Reprimand. The
lack of further allegations after the Letter of Reprimand does not convince the Panel that the
Respondent no longer presented a significant risk of serious harm to the public health, safety, and
welfare.

The Respondent continued to be a serious danger when the order for summary suspension

was issued due to his astonishing lack of sound judgment, his utter lack of boundaries, the

21
Attachment 1
distraction he caused at the Hospital, and the seriousness of his egregious behavior. The ALJ’s
proposed finding that there was no real danger at the time the Order for Summary Suspension
was issued is rejected by the Panel. The State’s exception is granted.

B. Articulation of Theory for Summary Suspension

The ALJ found that the Board did not articulate a theory in the order for summary
suspension stating how the Respondent posed a serious risk of harm at the time the order for
summary suspension was issued. (PD at 10-11.) The State took exception.

The ALJ’s proposed decision states, “While the Board detailed its Investigative Findings
in the Order for Summary Suspension, nowhere did it explicitly state in what way the
Respondent’s alleged behavior would form the grounds for a revocation under section 14-404 of
the Health Occupations Article of the Maryland Code.” (PD at 10.) The order for summary
suspension, however, does not concern a revocation under § 14-404 of the Health Occupations
Article. The summary suspension was based upon § 10-226(c)(2) of the State Government
Article, which requires the agency to give the licensee “written notice of the suspension, the
finding, and the reasons that support the finding.” State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2)(ii)1. The order for
summary suspension notified the Respondent of the suspension, stating that “the Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED.”
(Capitals and bold in original.) The order for summary suspension provided the finding, stating
“Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs.
(COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).” The order for summary suspension also provided the

reasoning upon which the finding of the imperative need for the summary suspension was based:

22
9. The Board’s investigation determined that for a period of several

years, the Respondent engaged in a pattern of unprofessional conduct

that included, but was not limited to, sexual harassment of hospital staff,

both verbal and physical, sexual propositioning, and unconsented-to

physical contact of at least one patient. The Respondent’s conduct

proceeded largely unchecked over a period of time due in-part to staff

members’ perceptions that any complaints about his conduct would not

be acted upon at the organizational level.
The order for summary suspension then detailed over the next seven pages the specific alleged
facts supporting the order’s reasoning as to why the summary suspension was imperative. Based
on the order for summary suspension, it is clear that the reason the summary suspension was
imperative was because the Respondent’s long-term conduct at the Hospital was so outrageous,
so menacing and deleterious, and so outside the bounds of appropriate hospital behavior that he
persisted as a serious danger. The Panel finds this a reasonable understanding of the order of
summary suspension. And Panel B agrees with, and accepts, this reason. The ALJ may not
have agreed with it, but that does not mean that the order for summary suspension was deficient.
The ALJ erred. The State’s exception is granted.
C. Length of Time of Investigation

As to when an agency issues an order for summary suspension, if the agency chooses to
issue such an order, is left to the discretion of the agency. Mullan, 381 Md. at 168. The ALJ
inferred that the issuance of the summary suspension was an abuse of the panel’s discretion,
because the order of summary suspension was issued 10 months after the Board received the first
complaint against the Respondent. The State took exception.
An abuse of discretion is established if no reasonable person would take the same action

that was taken by the agency. See Sibly v. Doe, 227 Md. App. 645, 658 (2016). The burden of

demonstrating an abuse of discretion is on the one challenging the discretionary action taken by

23

 
the agency. See State v. Brown, 355 Md. 89, 98 (1999). The ALJ’s analysis for finding an
inference of an abuse of discretion was as follows:
The length of delay here, from the first complaint filed with the Board

on August 30, 2020, to the date of suspension, July 2, 2021, was ten

months. While there is no allegation that the Respondent in any way

contributed to this delay, the COVID-19 pandemic certainly must have.

Nevertheless, the Board was able to interview witnesses and meet

remotely, giving rise to the inference that suspending summarily based

on an allegation that it was imperatively required was an abuse of the

Board’s discretion.
(PD at 12.) Essentially, the ALJ established a 10-month deadline for the issuance of an order for
summary suspension after an agency receives a complaint against a licensee, indicating that the
ALJ believed that a 10-month investigation is just too long. The ALJ erred.

The ALJ’s creation of a 10-month deadline was without regard to the circumstances of
the case and the investigation needed. The ALJ’s analysis is devoid of any facts or information
about the investigation, other than it took 10 months to issue the order for summary suspension
from the date of the first complaint. The ALJ did not consider the nature or complexity of the
investigation or the amount of material involved or any of the numerous reasons that might
explain the investigation period (other than the investigation taking place during the COVID-19
pandemic).* The ALJ also did not consider whether the Respondent was prejudiced by the
length of the investigation, in contravention of the caselaw set forth in Mullan. 381 Md. at 169.
As articulated by the Court of Appeals, there simply has to be more than just the length of the
investigation to support the finding that the issuance of the order for summary suspension was
arbitrary or capricious. Mullan, 381 Md. At 170 (quoting State v. Chavis, 261 S.C. 408, 200
4 The ALJ also calculated the 10-month period from the date the Board received the first
complaint. But there were three complaints that the Board received later. Two were received
three months after the first complaint and another was received four months after the first

complaint. It does not make sense to the Pane! to impose a 10-month deadline and not factor in
the Board receiving three more complaints months after receiving the first complaint.

24
S.E.2d 390, 392 (1973) (“when ‘there is nothing other than an unexplained delay on the part of
reporting officials, unaccompanied by any showing of prejudice to the driver, the driver is not
entitled to any relief because of a delay in imposing the suspension. ...’”) The ALJ’s analysis
does not comport with the vast discretion expressly afforded agencies investigating potential
summary suspension cases: “When investigating potential summary suspensions, an agency
should not compromise the thoroughness of its investigation because of the threat of judicial
reversal should the investigation take ‘too long.’” Id.

It is also significant that the Mullan decision cites a New York board case in which the
summary suspension was upheld despite the investigation taking six years. See Mullan, 381 Md.
at 170 (citing John P. v. Axelord, 97 A.D.2d 950, 468 N.Y.S.2d 951-53 (N.Y.App.Div. 1983)).
And the Board has summarily suspended a physician’s license after seven years from when the
Board received the first complaint against the physician and six years after receiving the second
complaint. Roane v. Maryland Board of Physicians, 213 Md. App. 619 (2013). The Panel does
not accept the ALJ’s finding or inference that the order for summary suspension was an abuse of
discretion simply because the investigation took 10 months. The ALJ’s proposed decision does
not set forth any basis for concluding that the order for summary suspension was an abuse of the
panel’s discretion. See Mullan, 381 Md. at 168-73. The State’s exception is granted.

2. RESPONDENT’S EXCEPTIONS

The Respondent argues that the Board violated the Respondent’s due process rights. The
Respondent claims that the Board staff withheld excuipatory evidence from the disciplinary
panel at the time the panel voted to issue the order for summary suspension. The Respondent

contends that the Board’s staff either did not obtain, or purposely kept away, exculpatory

25

 
material, such as the Demand Letter, from the disciplinary panel because the material was, or
would have been, “inconsistent with their theory of the case.”

The first question is whether the Respondent possessed due process rights prior to the
issuance of the order for summary suspension. The Respondent argues, “cross examination and
the ability to present evidence was not afforded to the Respondent.” The Respondent quotes
Travers v. Baltimore Police Dep't: “a ‘basic tenet of fairness in administrative adjudications is
the requirement of an opportunity for reasonable cross-examination.’” 115 Md. App. 395, 417
(1997). Travers’ guidance on cross-examination, however, pertained to the evidentiary hearing,
not to the investigation stage. The appellant in Travers argued that the admission of hearsay
evidence during the evidentiary hearing violated his due process right to cross examination. But
the Travers court ruled that the right to cross examine was not violated, because the appellant
had the opportunity to subpoena the witnesses to testify at the evidentiary hearing but did not do
so. Jd. at 418. Moreover, in Rosov v. Maryland Bd. of Dental Exam’rs, 163 Md. App. 98, 115
(2005), the court explained that there is “‘no requirement, either in law or investigative
technique, that compels an investigative agency, prior to charging, to include the investigation

0

target or counsel in the interview process.”” Travers does not convince the Panel that the right
to cross examine applies during an agency’s investigation prior to the issuance of the order for
summary suspension.

It may be the case that the Respondent’s due process rights could have been violated if
the Board’s actions during the investigation and prior to the issuance of the order for summary
suspension compromised the evidentiary hearing to such an extent that the Respondent was

deprived of a fair evidentiary hearing. It does not appear to the Panel that the Respondent made

such an argument, but, even if he had, the Panel does not find that the Board staff’s actions

26
impaired the Respondent’s due process rights. The Respondent claims that Board staff purposely
withheld exculpatory material, specifically the “Demand Letter” (Resp.’s Ex. 7), from the panel
that issued the order for summary suspension. But the investigative material contained the fact
that Complainant 2 asked for $5,000,000 in exchange for her not pursuing actions against the
Respondent. (State’s Ex. 19 at 3, T. 9; State’s Ex. 26 at 7.) And the Respondent entered the
Demand Letter into evidence at the hearing before the ALJ (R. 174), and counsel for the
Respondent cross examined Complainant 2 about the Demand Letter. (T. 292-303.) The Panel
does not find any intent to keep exculpatory information away from the panel that issued the
summary suspension.

Furthermore, the concern that the Respondent has expressed over the information before
the disciplinary panel at, or prior, to the. issuance of the order for summary suspension, is
addressed by the post-deprivation hearing that is promptly held before a disciplinary panel after
the order for summary suspension is issued. Under COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7)(c), “[t]he
respondent is provided with a postdeprivation opportunity to be heard within 15 days by the
disciplinary panel, that voted to summarily suspend the license.” If the panel affirms the
summary suspension after the postdeprivation hearing, the Respondent has the right to a full
evidentiary hearing before an ALJ. The order for summary suspension was issued on July 2,
2021, and the postdeprivation hearing was held on July 15, 2021. At the postdeprivatrion
hearing, the Respondent had the opportunity to present his concerns about the summary
suspension, including presenting to the panel any relevant information he felt the panel should
have been apprised of.

Moreover, the significance of the Demand Letter in this case is not as consequential as

the Respondent argues. The Panel is aware that Complainant 2 has a financial stake in her

27
lawsuit, which could diminish her credibility. The Panel also understands that the Demand
Letter offered a deal that in exchange for $5,000,000 Complainant 2 would not file the lawsuit or
report the Respondent to various entities and agencies with jurisdiction over the Respondent,
which could indicate that Complainant 2 places a large sum of money for herself above her
interest in protecting others, which could also diminish her credibility. But the analysis does not
stop there. The Panel also must look at other indicators that weigh on her credibility, such as
whether her testimony is corroborated by, or conflicts with, the testimony and statements of
others. Complainant 2’s testimony was extensively corroborated by other witnesses. For
instance, Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent slapped an anesthetized patient’s
buttocks was corroborated by Individuals 5 and 9; Individual 3 corroborated Complainant 2’s
testimony that the Respondent made demeaning sexual comments to Complainant 2, such as
saying to Complainant 2, “I’d like to put you over my knee and spank you, spank you, spank
you”; and Individual 6 alleged that the Respondent tried to massage her [Individual 6’s] neck,
like Complainant 2 testified that the Respondent massaged her [Complainant 2’s] neck.
Considering the extent to which Complainant 2’s testimony was corroborated, the Demand Letter
does not undermine Complainant 2’s testimony to any significant degree.

The Respondent also argues that the Board initially did not interview the Hospital’s
perioperative director, because, “from the investigator’s perspective, the investigator knew or had
reason to believe that the account provided by the witness was already known.” (Resp.’s
Exceptions at 8.) During the investigation, Respondent’s counsel asked the Board to interview
the perioperative director. (Resp.’s Ex. 6.) Board staff then interviewed the perioperative

director. Neither party, however, offered the interview transcript into evidence or subpoenaed the

28
perioperative director to testify.> At the evidentiary hearing before the ALJ, the Respondent had
the opportunity to subpoena any witness he felt would help his position. OAH has extensive
procedures furnishing parties with the power to subpoena witnesses. Upon request of a party,
OAH may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses. COMAR
28.02.01.14A. Likewise, an ALJ may authorize the issuance of a subpoena pursuant to §
9-1605(c)(1) of the State Government Article. Under § 9-1605(d)(2), an ALJ may apply to a
circuit court to enforce a subpoena. Under COMAR 28.02.01.14F, “Ifa person fails to comply
with a properly served subpoena, at the request of an administrative law judge, the Office may
apply to the appropriate circuit court for an order to show cause why the person should not be
committed to jail for refusal to comply with a subpoena.” Therefore, even if due process rights
attached to evidentiary hearings could be tied to the Board’s actions during the investigation
stage, the record does not indicate that the Respondent’s evidentiary hearing process rights were
affected by the Board’s actions during the investigation stage. The Respondent’s exceptions are
denied, and the Panel does not adopt the ALJ’s proposed decision.
IV. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that the order, issued on July 2, 2021, pursuant to § 10-226(c)(2) of the
State Government Article, which summarily suspended the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland was imperatively required to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.

ORDER

It is, thus, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board Disciplinary Panel B
members present,‘ hereby
> During closing arguments, however, the ALJ stated that, because the transcript of the interview
of the perioperative director was on the computer disk (Respondent’s Ex. 3) containing the

Board’s investigative file, “Then it is in evidence.” (T. 443.)
§ Panel B had a quorum at the time it voted.

29
ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine,
issued on July 2, 2021, against the license of Respondent Hugo Benalcazar, M.D. to practice
medicine in Maryland, and the order, issued on July 15, 2021, affirming the order for summary
suspension, are AFFIRMED; and, thus, it is further

ORDERED that the license of the Respondent to practice medicine in Maryland remains
SUSPENDED, and thus, while the Respondent’s license is suspended, the Respondent shall not
practice medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that this final decision and order is a public document.

| Signature On File
OS/oi/z0Z2z
Date ! Christine A. Farrelly, Ex

edutive Director ()
Maryland State Board of cians

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO APPEAL
Pursuant to § 14-408(a) of the Health Occupations Article, the Respondent has the right
to seek judicial review of this final decision and order. Any petition for judicial review must be
filed in court within 30 days from the date this final decision and order was sent to the
Respondent. The final decision and order was sent on the date that it was issued. The petition
for judicial review must be made as directed in the Maryland Administrative Procedure Act, Md.
Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222, and Maryland Rules 7-201 et seq.
If the Respondent petitions for judicial review of this final decision and order, the Board
is a party and should be served with the court’s process. Also, a copy of the petition for judicial

review should be sent to the Maryland Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,

30
Maryland 21215. In addition, the Respondent should send a copy of the petition for judicial
review to the Board’s counsel, David Wagner, Assistant Attorney General, Office of the Attorney
General, 300 W. Preston Street, Suite 302, Baltimore, Maryland 21201 and by email at
david. wagner@maryland.gov The administrative prosecutor is not involved in the circuit court

process and does not need to be served or copied on pleadings filed in circuit court.

31
 

 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

HUGO BENALCAZAR, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D56356 * Case Number: 2221-0051

He Fee eee ek ei oe ea eR RIO IO Ok koe ek ek dea ek de ae oe ea koe oe ak

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Hugo Benalcazar, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D56356, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-
226(c) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), concluding that the public health, safety, or welfare

imperatively requires emergency action.
INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS!

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by, and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:

+ The statements regarding Panel A’s investigative findings are intended to provide the Respondent with reasonable
notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description
of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with this matter.
Attachment 3
 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

HUGO BENALCAZAR, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D56356 * Case Number: 2221-0051

* * * * * * * * * * * % *.

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
ON AMENDED CHARGES

On August 27, 2021, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) issued Amended Charges Under the Maryland Medical Practice Act,! which charged
Respondent Hugo Benalcazar, M.D. (the “Respondent” or “Dr. Benalcazar”) with immoral
conduct in the practice of medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(); unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(iD); and violations of the sexual misconduct
regulations, see Health Occ. § 1-212; COMAR 10.32.17 et seq.

A contested case, evidentiary hearing was held before an Administrative Law Judge
(“ALJ”) of the Maryland Office of Administrative Hearings. On October 12, 2022, the ALJ issued
a Proposed Decision with the proposed conclusions of law that the Respondent was guilty of:
immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i); and
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). The ALJ also
found that the Respondent violated the sexual misconduct regulations. See COMAR 10.32.17 et
seq. As a sanction, the ALJ proposed that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland be revoked and that the Respondent may not apply for the reinstatement of his license

until one-year has passed from the date of the revocation order.

' The Maryland Medical Practice Act is under §§ 14-101 ~ 14-702 of the Health Occupations
Article, Annotated Code of Maryland.
 

The Respondent filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision, and the State filed a
response to the Respondent’s exceptions. On January 25, 2023, an exceptions hearing was held
before Board Disciplinary Panel B (the “Panel” or “Panel B”).

STIPULATION OF FACT

The parties entered into the following stipulation of fact:

The Respondent was not responsible for actual sterilization and sanitization of or

handling or applying any cleaning supply, antiseptic, or other sterilization product

and that function was unique to the housekeeping staff.!?!

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B finds that the following facts were proved by the preponderance of evidence?:
Background

1. The Respondent, a neurosurgeon, was initially issued a license to practice medicine
in Maryland in 2000. At the time of the Board’s investigation in this matter, the Respondent was
board-certified in neurosurgery and held privileges at multiple hospitals in Maryland. The
Respondent maintained his license and was authorized to practice medicine in Maryland until July
2021, which was when Disciplinary Panel A of the Board summarily suspended the Respondent's
Maryland medical license.

2. As part of his medical practice, the Respondent performed craniotomies; lumbar
laminectomies; brain, back, and neck surgeries; ventricular shunts, and other neurological surgery
procedures.

3. The Respondent also maintained a private practice office in Maryland.

2 Panel B accepts the stipulation.
3 All of Panel B’s factual findings in this decision were proved by the preponderance of
evidence.
 

4. The pertinent events in this matter took place at a hospital (the “Hospital”), which
is located in Maryland, and at the Respondent’s private practice office, which was also in
Maryland. And the pertinent events involved employees and medical professionals, who worked
at the Hospital, as well as patients of the Hospital. The Respondent performed neurological
surgical procedures in an operating room (“OR”) at the Hospital. Personnel in the OR during his
surgeries typically included an anesthesiologist or a certified registered nurse anesthetist, a surgical
nurse, a physician assistant, an OR nurse, a circulating nurse, a surgical technologist, a medical
device manufacturer’s representative, and a neuromonitoring technician.

Complaint No. 1, filed by Complainant 1

5. Complainant 1, a woman, is a veteran surgical nurse, who was employed by the
Hospital from May 2004 to October 2018. During certain operations, the Respondent used the
Medtronic Stealth surgical navigation system. This high-tech system enables a surgeon to
precisely track the location of surgical instruments throughout the procedure. A key component
of the Stealth system is a reference frame that holds several gumball-sized balls or spheres coated
with a reflective, silver-colored surface (“Medtronic balls”). At the end of the procedure, the
Medtronic balls can be detached from the frame for either sterilization and reuse or disposal.

6. In or around 2013, after an operation performed by the Respondent at the Hospital
was completed and the patient was still anesthetized and asleep, Medtronic balls detached from
the reference frame, fell to the floor, and rolled. Several people were in the OR at the time,

including the Respondent, a manufacturer’s representative, one or two x-ray techs, and nurses,

4 This decision uses, where possible, generic terms and names for medical facilities and witnesses
in order to maintain confidentiality and privacy for the witnesses and patients involved in this
matter.
including Complainant 1. When the Medtronic balls fell, some of the people in the OR commented
with innuendo about the Medtronic balls rolling on the floor.

7. Ina playful, silly manner, Complainant | picked up one ball from the floor and put
it in the Respondent’s shirt pocket, saying, “Here you go.” The Respondent was no longer gowned
at the time, so the pocket of his shirt was accessible.

8. The Respondent looked at Complainant 1 and said, “Why don’t you put them in
your mouth?” Complainant 1 responded, “Ooh that’s gross.”

9. Later the same day, while Complainant 1 was documenting the surgery on her
computer, the Respondent came around behind her and put his right hand approximately six inches
down Complainant 1’s V-neck scrub shirt onto her chest at the bottom of the V-neck and the top
of Complainant |’s cleavage area.

10. Onother occasions, the Respondent commented a few times about Complainant 1’s
underwear and bra. He touched her upper shoulder blade and back.

11. On one occasion, before the incident with the Medtronic balls, Complainant 1 had
an outburst with the Respondent when he chastised her for leaving the OR during a procedure and
she told him she had to change her tampon.

12. On August 30, 2020, Complainant | filed her Complaint (Complaint No. 1) with
the Board. The complaint was dated August 25, 2020. Complainant 1 alleged in the Complaint
that the Respondent asked her to put ball-shaped pieces of a surgical instrument in her mouth, after
which he touched her skin at the V-neck of her scrub shirt, and that he would touch her back and

shoulders and comment on the color of her undergarments.

 
Complaint No. 2, filed by Complainant 2 (Respondent’s Slapping
an Anesthetized Patient’s Buttocks before Surgery in the OR)

13. Complainant 2, a female surgical technologist, began working at the Hospital in
2015, She was responsible for assuring that instruments and equipment were. at hand in the OR
for the surgeon and that the OR was sterile for the safety of the patient and the surgical team.

14. In or about April 2017, a female patient was brought into the Respondent’s OR for
a lumbar fusion. The patient was moved onto a Jackson table, a specialized table used for prone
surgical procedures. The patient’s buttocks were up in the air and her back was exposed.
Individual 9, the Respondent’s physician assistant at the time, taped down the patient’s buttocks
to expose the surgery area. The patient was already prepped for surgery and was totally
unconscious from anesthesia.

15. Individual 9 was scrubbed and gowned, ready to drape the patient, when the
Respondent entered the OR. The Respondent saw that the patient was taped down but indicated
he did not like the way the patient was taped.

16. The Respondent went over and pulled tape off the patient. The Respondent looked
at the patient, whose buttocks had folded back over onto the lumbar area. The Respondent slapped*
the patient’s buttocks with a horizontal wrist movement of one hand, causing the patient’s buttocks

to jiggle. The Respondent’s hand was in a vertical position with the fingers extended but not

 

spread apart. His hand moved horizontally from his wrist. He slapped only one cheek of the

patient’s buttocks. As the Respondent slapped the patient’s buttocks, the Respondent said, “Baby’s

5 The witnesses (Complainant 2, Individual 5, and Individual 9) referred to the Respondent’s action
as both a slap and a smack, and slap and smack were used interchangeably. The Panel does not
find any inconsistency. The Panel finds that both “slap” and “smack” accurately describe the
Respondent’s action. However, unless smack is used in a quotation, this decision refers to the slap
or smack as a “slap.”
 

got back,” a reference to a popular song whose lyrics refer to a woman’s buttocks, and he briefly
moved back and forth in a rhythmic manner. There was no medical reason for slapping the
patient’s buttocks.®

17. The Respondent told Individual 9 to re-tape the patient and left the OR. Individual
9 re-taped the patient the same way he first taped the patient.

18. The Respondent performed the operation successfully. The patient was not bruised
or injured as a result of the Respondent slapping her buttocks. .

19. Complainant 2, Individual 5 (a registered nurse), Individual 9 (a physician
assistant), and an anesthesiologist? were present with the Respondent in the OR when the
Respondent slapped the patient’s buttocks.

20. Individual 9 did not report the incident.

21, Complainant 2 told Individual 9 that she would report the buttocks-slapping:

22. On November 30, 2020, Complainant 2 filed with the Board Complaint 2, the first
of Complainant 2’s three successive Complaints against the Respondent, in which she alleged, in
part, that the Respondent made inappropriate and unprofessional remarks about a patient’s body
and slapped the patient’s buttocks.

Complaint No. 3, filed by Complainant 2 (Respondent’s Examination of
Complainant 2’s Lower Back)

23. In or about April 2015, Complainant 2 was having lower back pain. She was

shifting her body back and forth in the OR while working. The Respondent’s physician assistant

© In this decision, where Panel B states that there was no medical reason for a particular act of the
Respondent, Panel B used its “experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge in
the evaluation of evidence.” Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-213(i).

7 The anesthesiologist did not testify at the ALJ hearing.

6
 

 

at the time, Individual 12, noticed and asked Complainant 2 if everything was okay. Individual 12
suggested some light exercises for Complainant 2 to perform.

24. The Respondent asked what Complainant 2 and Individual 12 were discussing,
When Complainant 2 said she had back pain, the Respondent offered to check her out between
surgical cases. Later, he escorted Complainant 2 into an empty office between the OR and the
post-anesthesia care unit and offered his help.

25. Complainant 2 went willingly into the empty office. Thé Respondent closed the
door. There was no one else in the room other than the Respondent and Complainant 2.

26. | The Respondent asked Complainant 2 to point out the location of the pain. She
turned around and pointed to her lower back area, above the buttocks and below the spine. She
was wearing scrubs. The Respondent asked her to lift up her scrub shirt so he could get a better
visual and put his hands around her waist and felt her back with his thumbs to ascertain the location
of her pain.

27. The Respondent asked Complainant 2 to lower her pants so he could get a better
visual. She did so willingly, untying and holding the draw strings to her pants so they would not
fall to the floor. The Respondent felt her back and commented on her underwear, that they were
cute, and on how good she looked from his point of view. Complainant 2’s mid-buttocks and skin
were exposed. He pushed on her lower back and below her underwear line. He made a sound,
“like a groan. In a sense, like, mm-hh.”

28. Complainant 2 felt extremely uncomfortable and quickly pulled up her pants and
left the room. She went to the OR front desk and told the charge nurse that she was uncomfortable
and did not want to return to the Respondent’s OR that day. The charge nurse assigned

Complainant 2 to a different room for that day.
29. On November 30, 2020, the Board received Complainant 2’s second complaint
(Complaint No. 3, which she initially dated August 27, 2020, but on which she changed the date
by interlineation to November 19, 2020), in which she complained about the manner the
Respondent examined her lower back.

Complaint 4, filed by Complainant 2 (Other Comments and Behavior
that the Respondent Subjected Complainant 2 to)

30. Complainant 2 took maternity leave sometime after the Respondent’s examination
of her back. When she returned to work, the Respondent told her how good she looked after just
giving birth. He also asked her how her sex life was after having the baby. She kept her answers
short, saying it was fine and everything was great.

31. On one occasion when Complainant 2 mistakenly handed the Respondent’s small

blade to him he told her to hand him the big blade, saying that he is a big boy and that she would

prefer his big boy over her husband. Complainant 2 interpreted the comment comparing a surgical —

instrument to male genitalia.

32. Around Halloween one year, the Respondent showed Complainant 2 a photo ofa
sexy nurse costume and suggested she buy and wear it for Halloween. She responded that the
costume was not her style or taste.

33. On another occasion, the Respondent commented on Complainant 2’s bra and bra
strap, saying that it must be her favorite one because she wore it often.

34. On one occasion, the Respondent followed Complainant 2 out of the OR toward
the front desk. In proximity to the OR secretary, the Respondent said that he wanted to take

Complainant 2 over his knee and spank her.
 

35, The Respondent said on one occasion that he wanted Complainant 2 to get on the
back of his motorcycle and they could run away if they wanted. He said she would look good on
his bike.

36. On another occasion, the Respondent took a photograph of Complainant 2’s eyes
while she was wearing a mask and cap, saying he took a picture of her eyes so he could look at it
later.

37. The Respondent regularly touched the back of Complainant 2’s neck. He would
stroke it up and down with his hands and comment that her neck was long and he could not stop
touching it. She would tell him to stop touching her neck.

38. The Respondent would grab Complainant 2’s “hair bun” and move her head up and
down.

39. On one occasion, the Respondent put his hand up Complainant 2’s pant leg when
she had trouble with her sock, saying he was impressed that she shaved.

40, The Respondent’s behavior made Complainant 2 uncomfortable and embarrassed.

41, On December 29, 2020, the Board received Complainant 2’s third coniplaint
(Complaint 4, which she dated August 27, 2020, but changed the date by interlineation to
November 19, 2020), in which she alleged the Respondent frequently touched her.

Complaint No. 5, filed by Individual 10

42. For the past sixteen years, Individual 10, a woman, has worked as a nurse at a

hospital in another State, most recently as Director of the Operating Room and Central Sterile.

She supervises forty-four employees, including techs, nurses, and scrubs.
L BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

 

medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to
practice medicine in Maryland on August 3, 2000, under License Number
D56356. The Respondent’s license is current through September 30, 2022.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in neurological surgery.

3. The Respondent is the proprietor and sole practitioner of a neurosurgery,
physical therapy and pain management practice in Harford County, Maryland.
The Respondent also holds privileges at four hospitals in the Baltimore
metropolitan area.”

Il. THE COMPLAINTS

4. On or about September 3, 2020, the Board received a complaint (“Complaint 1”)
from a surgical nurse and former colleague of the Respondent (“Complainant
1”). In her complaint, Complainant 1 alleged that when she worked with the
Respondent at a hospital in Harford County, Maryland (the “Hospital”’) the
Respondent behaved inappropriately, both verbally and physically, with herself
and other female staff members. Complainant | stated that the Respondent

would touch her on a daily basis, which included rubbing her shoulders and back,

? To ensure confidentiality and privacy, the names of individuals and entities involved in this case, other than the
Respondent, are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of all individuals/entities
referenced in this document by contacting the Administrative Prosecutor.

2
 

 

43, From 1996 to 2006, Individual 10 worked at a hospital in the Baltimore region
(which is not the Hospital) as both a circulating and scrub nurse and as a coordinator for this
hospital’s neurosurgery, orthopedic surgery, ENT (ear, nose, and throat) and eye divisions. .

44, For two years in the early 2000’s, Individual 10 worked with the Respondent at the
Baltimore area hospital as a circulating or scrub nurse in his OR. When she circulated, she helped
to position and prep the patient, enter documentation, and get equipment. When she scrubbed, she
would be next to the Respondent handing him instruments.

45. Individual 10’s working relationship with the Respondent was cordial.

46. Individual 10 did not witness any unprofessional behavior on the part of the
Respondent at the Baltimore area hospital.

47. Early in 2017, Individual 10 had severe back pain. She had an MRI or X-ray. taken
in another State that revealed a synovial cyst in her back at L4 (the lowest portion of the lumbar
spine). The cyst had to be removed surgically so it would not push painfully on a nerve.

48. Individual 10 consulted the Respondent because when she worked at the Baltimore
area hospital the Respondent performed a complicated lumbar surgery on her father’s back, and
her father had an excellent outcome.

49. In March 2019, while she was working in another State, Individual 10 made an
appointment to see the Respondent at the Respondent’s private practice medical office in
Maryland. Individual 10 went to the appointment alone, was greeted at the front desk and taken
into an exam room. A female medical assistant or nurse came in, asked for her height and weight
and took her blood pressure, pulse, and respirations, went over her history of medications and past

surgeries, then excused herself and said the Respondent would see her in a few minutes.

 
50. The Respondent entered the exam room, shut the door, and introduced himself
Individual 10 said, “Hey, do you remember me? I’m [Individual 10] from [the Baltimore area
hospital].” The Respondent became jovial. He sat down on a round stool that had no back on it
that wheeled. He wheeled over to Individual 10 and touched both of her breasts with one hand
with open fingers on each breast and said, “I’ve always wanted to do this.”

51. Individual 10 said, “Oh stop.” She did not consent to the Respondent touching her
breasts, and there was no medical reason for the Respondent to touch her breasts.*

52. The Respondent removed his hands. He and Individual 10 discussed her films that
she had brought or sent to his office. The Respondent showed Individual 10 the cyst and his
recommendation for its surgical removal.

53. The Respondent asked Individual 10 to stand up so he could examine her back. She
was fully clothed. The Respondent then told how “nice” her “ass” was.

54, Individual 10 giggled nervously and said, “Oh, stop.” The Respondent excused her
to make a surgery appointment at the desk. An appointment was made for her to have surgery on
March 29, 2017, at the Hospital.

55. Individual 10 did not tell anyone at the time about what happened at the
Respondent’s private practice office.

56. On March 29, 2017, Individual 10 went to the Hospital for the scheduled surgery.
Her sister accompanied her.

57. She went into the pre-surgical area, where patients are prepared for surgery.

58. A woman put her in a room and told her to undress, put non-slip socks on Individual

10’s feet, and gave her a blanket for covering up. The room had a curtain for access. Individual

8 See footnote 6.

11
 

10 asked to stay flat on the stretcher because she could not sit at the time. The woman took her
vital signs.

59, Individual 10 was wearing a hospital gown, which was open in the back, socks, and
a blanket. She was not wearing undergarments.

60. A pre-op nurse came in and went over Individual 10’s medications and past
surgeries. Individual 10 was told the Respondent would be in soon, followed by anesthesia and
the OR nurse. While Individual 10 was in the pre-op room, an IV line was inserted.

61. Individual 10’s sister was sitting in the room on Individual 10’s left side.

62. The Respondent entered the pre-op room and asked everyone to step out so he could
mark Individual 10’s back. In the pre-op room at that time were Individual 10, her sister and the
pre-op nurse. When her sister and the pre-op nurse stepped out, the Respondent took the marker.

63. | The Respondent had the marker in his left hand. With his left hand, he quickly
lifted the blanket and the patient’s gown and, with the closed index and middle fingers of his right
hand, touched the top of Individual 10°s vagina. Individual 10 did not consent to the Respondent
touching her vagina, and there was no medical reason for the Respondent to touch her vagina.?
The Respondent was ungloved in the pre-op room. There was no vaginal penetration. .

64. — Individual 10 hit the Respondent’s hand and said, “Stop it. What are you doing?”

65. He then laughed and took his fingers to his nose and inhaled, smelling his fingers.
Individual 10 said, “Please stop. I am very nervous. And this is making it worse.” Then the
Respondent laughed and told Individual 10 to sit up so he could mark her back.

66. Individual 10 sat up. The Respondent marked her back and left the room. ‘When

he left the room, Individual 10’s sister, an anesthesiologist, and the OR nurse came in. The

” See footnote 6.
 

 

anesthesia consent was signed. The OR nurse asked Individual 10 her name and birthdate and if
she knew what kind of surgery she was having.

67. After the Respondent interacted with Individual 10 in the pre-op room and the
anesthesia consent was signed, Individual 10 received the medication Midazolam, whose trade
name is Versed. Versed can produce amnesia. Individual 10 had not yet been administered the
Versed when she saw the Respondent or when she signed the anesthesia consent. She received
Versed either in the pre-op room after the interaction with the Respondent or on the way to the OR
or in the OR.

68. The cyst removal surgery was performed, after which Individual 10 was taken to
the recovery room. Her pain had vanished, but she was unable to stand. The Respondent was
called and said the nerve was angry but that would go away.

69. Individual 10 was discharged the same day, March 29, 2017.

70. Ina post-operative follow-up telephone call from a person at the Hospital, on March
30, 2017, Individual 10 rated her “overall experience” at the Hospital as “Excellent.”

71. On March 31, 2017, Individual 10 returned to the Hospital, where the Respondent
performed a second surgery. The reason for the second surgery was that, after the first surgery,
Individual 10’s pain continued to worsen when she stood and she had trouble walking from the
pain. On March 31, 2017, the date of the second surgery, Individual 10 asked the Respondent if
her former fiancé, a Medtronic representative, would be present during the operation. She asked
because the second operation involved the placement of screws and a tod to stabilize her back.
Individual 10’s first surgery did not involve screws and a rod, it involved only the removal of the

synovial cyst.

13

 
72. Asa Medtronic representative, Individual 10’s former fiancé dealt with screws and
rods. The former fiancé’s presence in the OR would have made Individual 10 uncomfortable.

73. In response to Individual 10 asking before the second surgery if her former fiancé
would be present, the Respondent said the former fiancé would not be there for her case. The
former fiancé was not present.

74. In the second surgery, the Respondent successfully installed screws and a rod on
her right side to stabilize Individual 10’s back.

75. On July 11, 2021, Individual 10 emailed to the Board a complaint (Complaint 5)
against the Respondent, in which she alleged that the Respondent touched her vagina and smelled
his fingers prior to her first March 2017 operation.

Individual 4

76. — Individual 4, a woman, began working at the Hospital as an environmental services
(“EVS”) aide in November 2013. After progressing to team leader, she worked as an OR EVS
aide and a patient advocate for EVS. As a patient advocate, she would confirm with newly
admitted patients that their room was clean and ask if they had any concerns. She applied for and
obtained the position of OR secretary and served in that capacity from December 2015 through
July 2016.

77. As an OR secretary, Individual 4’s responsibilities were scheduling surgeons’
operations, updating the charge nurse about supplies and paperwork, and making sure the proper
staff were present.

78. Individual 4’s first interaction with the Respondent was when she was a patient
advocate, before she became a secretary. She was in business travel clothes with a clipboard. The

Respondent approached her, looked her up and down, and said, “Oh you’re wearing black on black.

14
 

I like that.” Individual 4 was uncomfortable and did not know if she knew who the Respondent
was.

79. Shortly after Individual 4 began working part-time in the OR, the Respondent
walked by her and said he was going to call her “Strawberry” as a nickname, which he did not
explain but which was an apparent reference to her strawberry blonde hair. He called her
Strawberry in passing once or twice a day while she was working in the OR, which was two days
a week. Individual 4 found the nickname distracting.

80. While Individual 4 was an EVS OR aide, the Respondent told her, “For a skinny
girl you have a really nice butt.”

81. The Respondent brought Individual 4 coffee twice after she asked him not to. He
asked her three times if she wanted to go to the nearby Starbucks with him. She declined each
time.

82. On one occasion, the Respondent called Individual 4 from a phone about 15 feet
away from Individual 4’s area and asked her to come over and sit on his lap. She responded by
asking the Respondent if he knew the phones were recorded (they were not).

83. Individual 4 reported to the Hospital’s director of perioperative services that the
Respondent was making her uncomfortable by calling her Strawberry and sitting down next to her
desk, and it was making her anxious at work. She did not mention that he asked her to sit on his
lap because she felt she had handled it by indicating to him that the phones were recorded. .

84, The director of perioperative services listened and said that she would supervise
Individual 4 better and keep an eye on the Respondent.

85. Another time, the Respondent commented approvingly on a tank top Individual 4

was wearing under her scrubs.
86. One day, about three or four months before Individual 4 left the OR in 2016, as
Individual 4 went home for the day and was on the hospital’s parking deck, the Respondent said,
“Strawberry[,] wait.” She ran and hid in her car and called the EVS supervisor to ask him to have
security keep an eye on the parking deck from the cameras at the exit.

87. Individual 4 left her job at the Hospital in July 2016.

88. Complainant 2 told Individual 4 that she (Complainant 2) had hired an attorney, and
Individual 4 called the attorney.

89. In 2020 or 2021, Individual 4 suffered a concussion that caused memory
impairment.

90. A topless selfie photo of Individual 4 that she took at her current home in another
State after she no longer worked at the Hospital came into the Respondent’s possession.

Individual 6

91. — Individuai 6, a woman, is a neuromonitoring tech who worked successively for two
companies that provided neuromonitoring services to the Hospital’s OR. Individual 6 worked with
the Respondent in his OR. Her function was to use technology to monitor patients’ spinal cord,
nerve and brain activity during surgery so the surgeon could avoid impinging on or cutting a
patient’s nerve and know if the patient was in distress. She would attach electrodes to the patient
and monitor her screen while the Respondent operated.

92. On three occasions, the Respondent touched Individual 6’s shoulders while she was
at her desk before surgeries as if'to give a massage. She did not consent to the Respondent touching

her shoulders.

:
:

 
 

 

|
|
|
|

93. On one occasion, the Respondent found fault with Individual 6 for leaving the OR
for a comfort break. Shortly after, Individual 6 stopped working at the Hospital but continued her
employment with the neuromonitoring company that employed her.

94. Individual 6 spoke once with Complainant 2’s attorney when the attorney called
her.

Individual 7

95, From 2014-2016, Individual 7, a woman, worked at the Hospital as an OR
housekeeper.

96. On one occasion, the Respondent followed Individual 7 into the OR and said, “It’s
a good thing you have that cute little butt so you can squeeze through.” .

Individual 11

97. From November 2017 to August 2018, Individual 11 was a circulating nurse in the
OR at the Hospital.

98. On one occasion, the Respondent came from behind Individual 11 and tickled her
sides, She recoiled, and the Respondent said he guessed she did not like that. She said she did not
like being touched. Ile never touched her again.

99, On another occasion, the Respondent commented on how her pants looked tight.

Complainant 2’s Attorney’s Demand Letter, Complainant 2’s Lawsuit,
and the Hospital’s Investigation

100. On June 7, 2018, attorneys representing Complainant 2, sent a letter (“Demand
Letter”) to the Respondent. Through her attorneys, Complainant 2 demanded that the Respondent
pay her $5,000,000 over two years in exchange for a nondisclosure agreement and her release of
all sexual harassment and other claims against the Respondent. The Demand Letter stated that

only Complainant 2 and her husband knew she had spoken with an attorney and that she had not

17
 

yet spoken with the Hospital in regard to her possible future legal action. The Demand Letter
further stated that. if Complainant 2’s demand was not met within 14 days, she would take the
following actions: notify the Hospital’s HR department and request an investigation of the
Respondent, file a formal charge against him with the Equal Employment Opportunities
Commission (EEOC), file a lawsuit against the Respondent in the Circuit Court for Harford
County, “send the letter with attachments sent to the EEOC to the Maryland Board of Physicians,”
and reserve the right to seek any and all other remedies available to her under the law of the State
of Maryland whether they were civil and/or criminal in nature as applicable to the facts of the
matter.

101. The Respondent declined to make a payment to Complainant 2 in response to the
Demand Letter.

102, In October 2018, Complainant 2 reported her allegations against the Respondent to
the Hospital’s HR department.

103. On October 12, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a lawsuit in the Circuit Court for Harford
County against the Respondent, the Respondent’s private practice, and the Hospital as defendants.
She alleged sexual harassment and other claims. The lawsuit remains pending.

104. Following Complainant 2’s report and the Hospital’s learning of her lawsuit, the
Hospital appointed an Ad Hoc Committee to investigate the allegations against the Respondent.
On March 6, 2019, the Ad Hoc Committee issued a report and a letter of reprimand to the
Respondent.

105. The authorship of the Ad Hoc Committee’s report is unknown, except that the

committee members themselves did not write the report.

18
 

106. The Respondent attended a course in professional boundaries, and the Hospital
monitored his behavior. There have been no complaints or allegations of misconduct against the
Respondent for any conduct after 2017.

107. Complainant 1 and Complainant 2 drafted their Complaints against the Respondent.
Complainant 1 filed her Complaint, on August 30, 2020. Complainant 2 dated her three
Complaints in August 2020, but filed her first two Complaints, in November 2020, and her third
Complaint, in December 2020. In July 2021, Individual 10 emailed her Complaint to the Board.

DISCUSSION
I. LEGAL AUTHORITIES AND STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

The grounds for imposing a reprimand, probation, or suspension or revocation of a license
under the Maryland Medical Practice Act are set forth under § 14-404 of the Health Occupations
Article and include the following:

Health Occ. § 14-404
(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle,
a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the

quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand, place any licensee
on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
co * *
(3) Is guilty of:
(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicinef.]

The Maryland Medical Practice Act provides a statutory definition of “practice medicine”:
Health Occ. § 14-101(0)

(1) “Practice medicine” means to engage, with or without
compensation, in medical:
(i) Diagnosis;
(ii) Healing;
(iti) Treatment; or
(iv) Surgery.

19
 

and that he would often comment on her undergarments. She complained that
the Respondent once touched her “skin at the V-neck in her scrub shirt while
looking her in the eyes.” Complainant 1 detailed an incident in the operating
room (the “O.R.”) when some ball-shaped instrumentation fell to the floor and
the Respondent stated to her “why don’t you put them in your mouth.”
Complainant | stated that she reported some of her concerns about the
Respondent through to Hospital authorities, but no disciplinary action was taken.
5. On or about November 30, 2020, Board staff received a complaint (“Complaint
2”) from a surgical technologist (“Complainant 2”) who previously worked with
the Respondent at the Hospital. Complainant 2 described an incident taking
place on April 19, 2017, when she was working with the Respondent in the
operating room with a patient anesthetized and lying face-down on the operating
table. The Respondent came into the O.R. and began making “extremely
unprofessional and inappropriate remarks” about the patient’s body. The
Respondent commented on “her butt shape saying how round it was, how nice
it looked for her age,” then forcefully smacked the patient’s backside.

. Complainant 2 went on to describe an incident wherein she was experiencing
severe lower back pain while she was assisting the Respondent in performing a
procedure. The Respondent asked Complainant 2 if she would like him to “cheek
[her] out in between cases.” Complainant 2 stated that she would, and the
Respondent later escorted her into an empty office and began to examine her.

Complainant 2 stated that while touching her lower back and “without

3
 

(2) “Practice medicine” includes doing, undertaking, professing
to do, and attempting any of the following: :

(i) Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing -
for, or removing any physical, mental, or emotional ailment of an
individual:

1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that
is exercised or invoked by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or .

The scope of “in the practice of medicine,” in the context of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3),
was broadened in Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59 (1999), where the
court rejected Dr. Banks’ argument that his sexual harassment of co-workers in a hospital was not
“in the practice of medicine.” While Dr. Banks’ misconduct did not occur simultaneously with
him performing a medical procedure on any patient and did involve non-direct care employees of
the hospital, the court ruled that his behavior was “sufficiently intertwined with patient care to
constitute misconduct in the practice of medicine.” Jd. at 76-77.

In Shirazi v. Maryland State Board of Physicians, 199 Md. App. 469 (2011), without
medical purpose and without the patients’ consents, the physician placed his fingers inside the
vaginas of four patients and, in two cases, smelled his fingers immediately afterward. The Board
found the physician guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine and
revoked his license. The Court of Special Appeals affirmed the Board’s decision.

In Finucan v. Board of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577 (2004), the court
affirmed the Board’s decision to revoke Dr. Finucan’s medical license for unprofessional or
immoral conduct in the practice of medicine for having consensual sexual relationships with three
patients he was actively treating. The court found that unprofessional conduct or immoral conduct

refers to “‘conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of a profession, or conduct which is

unbecoming a member in good standing of a profession.’” Jd. at 593.

20
COMAR 10.32.02.16 states, “The Board and the disciplinary panels may consider the
Principles of Ethics [“Principles”] of the American Medical Association [“AMA”], but’ these
principles are not binding on the Board or the disciplinary panels.” The AMA’s Principles (as
revised in June 2001), provide:

I, A physician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical
care, with compassion and respect for human dignity and rights.

If. A physician shall uphold the standards of professionalism, be
honest in all professional interactions, and strive to report physicians
deficient in character or competence, or engaging in fraud or :
deception, to appropriate entities. , ‘

Hl. A physician shall respect the law and also recognize a

responsibility to seek changes in those requirements which are

contrary to the best interests of the patient.

IV. A physician shall respect the rights of patients, colleagues, and

other health professionals, and shall safeguard patient confidences

and privacy within the constraints of the law.

V. A physician shall continue to study, apply, and advance scientific

knowledge, maintain a commitment to medical education, make

relevant information available to patients, colleagues, and the

public, obtain consultation, and use the talents of other health

professionals when indicated.

VI. A physician shall, in the provision of appropriate patient care,

except in emergencies, be free to choose whom to serve, with whom

to associate, and the environment in which to provide medical care;

VI. A physician shall recognize a responsibility to participate in

activities contributing to the improvement of the community and the

betterment of public health.

VIIl. A physician shall, while caring for a patient, regard

responsibility to the patient as paramount.

IX. A physician shall support access to medical care for all people.

|

 

(State’s Ex. 31A, at S-530.)

The AMA’s Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs promulgates Opinions interpreting the
Principles. AMA Opinion 9.4.4 (2016) addresses “Physicians with Disruptive Behavior.” AMA
Opinion 9.4.4 provides in pertinent part:

The importance of respect among all health professionals as a means

of ensuring good patient care is foundational to ethics. Physicians
have a responsibility to address situations in which individual

21
 

physicians disruptively, that is, speak or act in ways that may

negatively affect patient care, including conduct that interferes with

the individual’s ability to work with other members of the health

care team, or for others to work with the physician.

Disruptive behavior is different from criticism offered in good faith

with the aim of improving patient care and from collective action on

the part of physicians.
(State’s Ex. 31, S-521-22.) AMA Opinion 9.045 (June 2000) states, in pertinent part, “Personal
conduct, whether verbal or physical, that negatively affects or that potentially may negatively
affect patient care constitutes disruptive behavior.” (State’s Ex. 31, S-520)

The ALJ also found violations of the sexual misconduct regulations. COMAR 10.32.17 et
seq. However, the sexual misconduct regulations that the ALJ addressed and which were cited in
the amended charges, were amended in 2019. Because these amended regulations went into effect
after the incidents at issue occurred, the amended regulations are inapplicable and thus the Panel
has not considered whether the Respondent violated these amended regulations. For this reason,
the Panel does not find that the Respondent violated COMAR 10.32.17 ef seq. (as amended May
20, 2019). However, a violation of the sexual misconduct regulations is not a requirement and is
not necessary for there to be a violation of § 14-404(a)(3) of the Health Occupations Article.

Il. PANEL B’S CREDIBILITY DETERMINATION OF THE RESPONDENT

There are several findings that depended upon credibility determinations. In making its
credibility determination of the Respondent, the Panel found the Respondent’s testimony
concerning three incidents especially significant: (A) the slapping of the anesthetized patient’s
buttocks, (B) the Respondent saying to Complainant 2 that he wanted to spank her, and (C) his

interactions with Individual 4.

A. Slapping Anesthetized Patient’s Buttocks

22
 

The Respondent testified that he did not slap the anesthetized patient at issue in Coniplaint
No. 2. The Respondent testified that he was annoyed at the taping that Individual 9 performed on
the patient for a framed navigational system and asked for the patient to be re-taped.'!° The
Respondent testified that he touched the patient’s buttocks, but he described the touching as part
ofa lesson on taping that he purportedly gave to the individuals working on the case:

Okay. So the contact would be at the speed and at the force of a

touch. The movement would be slow speed and if you put your

fingers in a vertical orientation, maybe you know, little kids might

do this and you know, think that it looks like a fishtail going back

and forth, my hand moved back and forth with only enough force to

move the patient’s tissue to illustrate the danger that was present

should someone rely on that for stereotactic navigation.
The Respondent did acknowledge that the other individuals watching him were shocked.
However, the Respondent testified that they were shocked, not because he slapped the patient, but
because he asked Individual 9 to take off the tape. The Respondent’s testimony on the incident
was fundamentally different from the testimony of the three people who testified for the State on
the incident (Individuals 5 and 9 and Complainant 2).

Individual 5, in a straightforward manner, testified about what she witnessed of the
incident, “He slapped her.” She testified as to how she determined it was a slap, “The sound and
the visual. It’s kind of hard to mistake a slap.” She further testified, “Made me feel extremely
uncomfortable. It honestly threw me into a state of shock when it happened, because I really didn’t
know how to respond to it at all. It had definitely been the first time I had ever encountered

something like that[.]” When asked again as to what she observed, Individual 5 testified, “I saw a

slap and heard the sound.”

'© When interviewed by Board investigators, Individual 9 stated that he re-taped the patient as he
had taped the patient the first time: “Yeah, it was exactly how I had it before.”

23
Individual 9 testified that he observed the Respondent slap the patient. According to
Individual 9, the Respondent “just sort of was walking around and he slapped it... .” Individual
9 also said that the Respondent slapped the patient’s buttocks while saying “baby’s got back” and
moving in a rhythmic manner. Individual 9 also said that he was “surprised” because “I’ve never
seen anybody do that in the operating room before.” When asked whether the Respondent gave
him any medical reason for slapping the patient’s buttocks, Individual 9 testified, “No.”

Complainant 2 testified that the Respondent “proceeded to smack his patient’s butt. All
the while laughing like it was a joke. Like giggling. He seemed very happy. He was very happy
about it.” Complainant 2 further testified, “I remember looking at [Individual 5]. And I was in
shock. I could not even believe what had transpired. That he would do such a thing to his patient

While the three witnesses for the State who testified to the slapping did have some
differences in certain details, those differences were relatively peripheral. At the core, their
statements were essentially the same. Each of the three witnesses testified that he or she saw the
Respondent slap the patient’s buttocks, that they were shocked or surprised that the Respondent
slapped the patient, and none of these three testified that the Respondent provided a medical reason
behind it, and they certainly did not testify that the Respondent gave a medical lesson to them that
related to him slapping or touching the patient’s buttocks. In contrast to the Respondent’s
testimony, none of the three testified that they were “shocked” because the Respondent asked
Individual 9 to remove the tape. To a major extent, each of these three witnesses corroborated
each other, while the Respondent’s testimony was in a different realm. Based upon the testimony
of Complainant 2 and Individuals 5 and 9, the Panel finds that the Respondent’s testimony on this

incident was false.

24
 

B. Respondent Telling Complainant 2 that Wanted to Spank Her
Complainant 2 testified that on one occasion she
walked out of the OR — towards the OR front desk to sit down. It
was near the end of my shift. Dr. Benalcazar shortly followed me
out saying that he wanted to, ‘take me over his knee and spank me.’”

Complainant 2’s testimony was corroborated by Individual 3, who testified that

Complainant 2
came out the room a little flustered, came up to where — it’s like a
counter where I sit. Shortly after that, Dr. Benalcazar came out and
stood next to her at the counter and looked at her and said I would
like to put you over me knee and spank you, spank you, spank you.

When asked about telling Complainant 2 that he wanted to take her over his knee and spank
her, the Respondent testified, “No. I do not recall that.” The evidence decisively shows that the
Respondent told Complainant 2 that he wanted to spank her. The Respondent’s testimony on this
incident indicates that the Respondent is not a reliable witness.

C. The Respondent and Individual 4

When the Respondent was initially interviewed by Board investigators, he was asked
whether he was “familiar” with Individual 4 (an OR secretary), who was referred to by her first
and last name. The Respondent answered, “No.” Individual 4’s last name was then spelled
(correctly) by the Respondent’s attorney. The Respondent still testified that he had no recollection
of Individual 4. The Board investigators mentioned that she avoided the Respondent after the
Respondent began bringing her coffee. Still, the Respondent said he had no recollection of her.
The investigators mentioned that she asked him to stop bringing her coffee because it made her

uncomfortable and asked the Respondent whether he brought her coffee. The Respondent

responded that he did have a “very little recollection of this but certainly possible that that would

25
 

 

 

be the case.” When asked whether he ever called someone by the nickname “Strawberry,” the
Respondent testified that he did recall that: “I called her that once because her hair was red.” Asked
whether the person whom he called Strawberry was Individual 4, the Respondent said he did not
remember.

About an hour after the interview, the Respondent’s counsel emailed a Board investigator
and said that the Respondent recalled “additional important information concerning [Individual
4}.” Thus, four days later, the Respondent was interviewed a second time.

At the second interview, the Respondent testified,

[Individual 4], I, 1 would bring coffee to [Individual 4]. I
didn’t know what kind of coffee she liked, you know, and people are
very particular about their coffee, so [Individual 4] would tell me
what coffee she wanted. This isn’t something where I’m forcing
coffee on someone.

And that sort of sparked a friendly relationship at the hospital
and that friendly relationship morphed into a romantic relationship
outside of the hospital.

And on one occasion she drove to my administrative office,
which is about a mile or so away from the hospital, after hours,
specifically to have an encounter with me. She drove her own car,
you know, I wasn’t there with her.

And, and that lasted a very short time, but the reason that it
ended was strictly on — I ended it. And the reason it ended was
because she made a demand for money to me and that, you know,
freaked me out. I was extremely concerned, obviously, because
there was no talk of that at all.

And obviously it is an implied threat to me, and so, and so
that’s how that ended.

The Respondent was then asked whether he knew who Individual 4 was at the first
interview. The Respondent testified:
A. No, not, no, I didn’t. It took me a while to sort of put two
and two together.
At the very end when we were talking about strawberry, it,

it hit like that, because I didn’t call her by her name.
Q. Oh, okay.

26
 

 

A. There are plenty of people in the, believe it or not, in the O.R.
I wouldn’t be able to tell you their whole name frequently.

Q. But you had a sexual relationship with her?

A. We had a romantic relationship, yes.

Q. Okay. And when you say romantic, was there sexual

intercourse?
A. Well, yes, there was.
Q. Okay.

A. The one time.

The Respondent further testified at the second interview that he communicated with
Individual 4 by text and telephone. He then explained that, at the first interview, “it’s not that I
didn’t remember, it’s that I couldn’t, I have to put some type of coherent thing together for you
guys.” The ALJ found that this “response did not reflect positively on his credibility.” The
Respondent also said at the second interview, “So, yeah, this isn’t like I had forgot this person.”
The Respondent also told the investigators that he possessed a topless selfie of Individual 4 which
he said he obtained by Individual 4 sending it to him.

The Respondent's change from denying knowing a person to testifying that: (1) he had a
sexual relationship with that person, (2) who subsequently “freaked [him] out” when that person
threatened him by demanding an unspecified amount of money, and (3) that he kept a topless selfie
of that person, demonstrates the Respondent’s lack of credibility. The Respondent’s statements
concerning Individual 4 in the two interviews severely damaged his credibility. The record does
not support the Respondent’s testimony that the Respondent had a sexual relationship with
Individual 4 or that Individual 4 demanded money from the Respondent or that Individual 4 sent
the topless selfie to the Respondent.!!

D. Conclusion — Panel’s Credibility Determination of Respondent

"! Based on the testimony of Individual 4 and the inconsistent testimony of the Respondent, the
Panel finds that Individual 4 sent the topless selfie to another physician at the Hospital with whom
she had a flirtatious relationship and that this physician provided the Respondent with the photo.

27
In sum, the Respondent’s testimony concerning: (1) the slapping of the anesthetized
patient’s buttocks, (2) his statement to Complainant 2 that he wanted to spank her, and (3) his
interactions with Individual 4 prove to Panel B that the Respondent was neither a credible nor a
reliable witness.

UI. PANEL B’S FINDINGS CONCERNING ALJ FINDINGS FOR WHICH THE
RESPONDENT DID NOT TAKE EXCEPTION

The Respondent took exception to several of the ALJ’s findings and conclusions
concerning incidents in which the ALJ found that the Respondent’s conduct was unprofessional
and/or immoral. The Respondent, however, did not take exception to all of the ALJ’s proposed
findings and conclusions. Here, Panel B addresses findings and conclusions that the ALJ made
against the Respondent for which the Respondent did not take exception.

A. Complaint No. 2 —- Respondent’s Slapping the Anesthetized Patient’s Buttocks

The Respondent did not take exception to the ALJ’s findings and conclusions regarding
Complaint No. 2, where the ALJ found that the Respondent slapped the buttocks of an anesthetized
patient in the OR and that it constituted immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine. The evidence supports the ALJ’s findings and conclusions. The Respondent forcefully
slapped the patient’s buttocks when the patient was anesthetized while he said “Baby’s Got Back”
and moved in a rhythmic manner. There was no medical purpose for slapping the patient, and, of
course, the patient did not consent to it. The Panel concludes that the Respondent’s slapping of
the anesthetized patient’s buttocks constitutes immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i); and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

B. Respondent’s Behavior that Complainant 2 was Subjected to

28
The Respondent took exception to the ALJ’s findings with respect to the Demand Letter,
arguing, inter alia, that the Demand Letter demonstrated a lack of credibility on the part of
Complainant 2. But, beyond this credibility argument, it does not seem that the Respondent took
exception to the ALJ’s findings that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional and/or immoral
conduct concerning his behavior that he subjected Complainant 2 to.

1. Complaint No. 3 —- Respondent’s Evaluation of Complainant 2’s Back

Concerning Complaint No. 3, the ALJ found that the Respondent engaged in
unprofessional and immoral conduct in the practice of medicine by commenting, while purportedly
conducting an examination concerning Complainant 2’s back pain, on how cute her underwear
was and how good she looked from his point of view. Panel B also concludes that the Respondent
engaged in unprofessional conduct and immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), by making these comments during the Respondent’s
purported examination of Complainant 2’s back. See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64,

2. Complaint No. 4— Other Improper Conduct by the Respondent that he
Subjected Complainant 2 to

The ALJ found that the Respondent subjected Complainant 2 to many improper acts and
comments. The Respondent subjected Complainant 2 to a steady and long-term course of sexual
harassment. See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64, 72, 76-77. The Panel finds that the Respondent’s
sexual harassment of Complainant 2, specifically his incessant and unwanted touching of
Complainant 2, his grabbing of Complainant 2’s hair bun and using it to jerk her head around,
telling Complainant 2 that he’d like to spank her, and his asking about Complainant 2’s sex life,
constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii).

C. Individual 4

29

 
 

 

TL.

permission or hesitation he lifts up [her] scrub shirt and tells [her] to loosen [her]
pants.” Complainant 2 stated that because she trusted the Respondent to behave
like a professional, she complied and loosened her pants. She further stated that
“without warning he pulled [her] underwear down...he then started commenting
on how “cute” [her] underwear was and how “nice” [she] looked from where he
was standing. The entire time still touching [her] lower back and butt.”
Complainant 2 stated that she felt “mortified,” pulled herself together and left

the room.

. On or about December 29, 2020, Board staff received another complaint

(“Complaint 3”) from Complainant 2. In Complaint 3, she stated that, among
other things, the Respondent has a reputation of “being very flirtatious and very
forward with ‘pretty girls.”’ Complainant 2 stated that the Respondent touches
her “multiple times a day every time [she is] with him but [she doesn’t] know
what to do about it.” Complainant 2 also stated that she had previously heard the
Respondent threaten nurses before saying that he “all he has to do is say the word
and he will have them fired.”

BOARD INVESTIGATION

. The Board conducted an investigation of the Respondent’s conduct, and as part

of its investigation, Board staff conducted under-oath interviews with twelve
current and former colleagues of the Respondent. In addition, Board staff

subpoenaed the Respondent’s personnel records from the various institutions at
 

|
/

The ALJ found that the Respondent’s unprofessional conduct included the Respondent
calling Individual 4, an OR secretary, on her phone while she was at her desk from 15 feet away
while they were at the Hospital and asking her to sit on his lap and, on another occasion, for telling
Individual 4 that she had a “nice butt.” The Respondent did not take exception to this. Panel B
finds that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), for telling Individual 4 at the Hospital that she. had a
“nice butt” and for calling Individual 4 at her desk in the Hospital from 15 feet away and asking
her to sit on his lap. See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64.

IV. SPECIFIC CONDUCT TO WHICH THE RESPONDENT TOOK EXCEPTION

A. Complaint No. 1 (Medtronic balls / hand on Complainant 1’s chest, etc.)

The Respondent challenged the ALJ’s findings concerning Complainant |. The ALJ found
that the Respondent acted unprofessionally by telling Complainant | in the OR that she should put
the Medtronic balls that fell on the floor in her mouth, that the Respondent placed his hand inside
her scrub shirt on her upper chest, that the Respondent commented on her underwear multiple
times, and that he lightly touched her back several times. Despite finding a few inconsistencies in
her testimony, the ALJ found Complainant 1 credible and accepted her testimony concerning these
incidents.

The ALJ also addressed the Respondent’s contention that Complainant 1 was not credible
because she was friends with Complainant 2 and that the two conspired against the Respondent.
The ALJ found that Complainant | filed her complaint years later after discussing with
Complainant 2 Complainant 2’s intentions for seeking redress against the Respondent. The ALJ
found that the coordination between the two explained the timing of Complainant 1’s complaint

to the Board but did not indicate that the complaint by Complainant 1 was fabricated.

30

 
The Respondent argues on exceptions that the ALJ erred, arguing that Complainant’! was
biased based upon her friendship with Complainant 2, that Complainants 1 and 2 conspired
together, and that Complainant 1 was not credible for changing the date on the occurrence of the
Medtronic/scrub shirt incidents from 2008 to 2013. The Respondent further contends that the ALJ
erroneously credited Complainant 1’s testimony “despite the legion of inconsistencies, untruths,
and admitted half-truths.”

There are a few parts of Complainant 1’s testimony that the Panel had to wrestle with. But
mostly, like the ALJ, the Panel credits Complainant 1’s testimony. The Panel is impressed that
Complainant 1 testified that she was at fault in an incident that occurred in the OR in which
Complainant 1 had an outburst and left the OR. The ALJ wrote, “[Complainant 1] admitted having
an unprofessional outburst in the OR, for which she apologized to the Respondent.” The
Respondent chastised Complainant 1 for leaving the OR. The details of the incident were highly
personal to Complainant 1, nonetheless, Complainant 1 forthrightly explained the incident at the
ALJ hearing, including that she apologized to the Respondent. The Panel finds that Complainant
1’s testimony on this incident buttressed her credibility. That being said, the reliability of her
testimony needed to be carefully evaluated, including when the Medtronic balls/scrub shirt
incidents occurred.

Complainant 1’s complaint to the Board is dated August 25, 2020, and was received by the
Board on August 30, 2020. Complainant 1 wrote in the complaint that the Medtronic balls/scrub
shirt incidents took place in 2008. The ALJ found, however, that the incidents took place in 2013.
Complainant 1 met with the director of perioperative services to discuss these incidents. The
director of perioperative services started working at the Hospital in 2012 and testified that

Complainant 1 met with her shortly after Complainant | said the incidents occurred, which was in

31
 

:

the beginning of January 2013 or late December 2012. The Respondent argues that the five-year
difference is significant because, according to Complainant 1, the incident affected their
interactions, and thus, according to the Respondent, a five-year discrepancy is difficult to
harmonize with such a significant effect.

The Panel agrees with the ALJ that the five-year discrepancy did not significantly impair
Complainant 1’s credibility, essentially because the evidence of the incident was sufficiently
established and did occur a long time ago (making it more difficult to pinpoint when it took place).
Complainant 1 met with the director of perioperative services close to the time that the incident
occurred to complain about the incidents.

In her complaint to the Board, Complainant 1 alleged that Respondent touched her skin at
the V-neck of her scrub shirt. Complainant | initially said when interviewed that when he put a
hand on her chest one of his fingers definitely touched one of her breasts. Later in the interview,
she said that his touch included the cleavage area but not on a breast. At the hearing, she said that
he may have touched one of her breasts. Additionally, the Respondent testified.that he did touch
her chest, although denying that he touched her breast. The Respondent testified that Complainant
1 asked him to massage her chest. The Respondent also testified that his touching of Complainant
1’s upper chest was discussed with the director of perioperative services at their meeting. Like the
ALJ, the Panel does not accept that Complainant 1 asked the Respondent to massage her chest.
The evidence indicates that Complainant 1 was not comfortable with the Respondent touching her,
not even for light touches on the back. The Panel does not find, though, that the Respondent
touched her breast.

Complainant | testified that the Respondent commented on her underwear “seven” times.

Complainant 1 said that the Respondent’s comments included that he liked the color of her

32
underwear. Complainant 1 acknowledged that she pulled the number of times (“seven”) out of the
air. In her complaint to the Board, Complainant 1 wrote that he “often” commented on the color
of her undergarments. The Respondent testified that he did not recall commenting on the color of
her underwear. The ALJ stated that Complainant 1’s choosing the specific number “seven” out of
the air “hardly enhanced her credibility,” but the ALJ found that her testimony on the number of
times it occurred did not negate her testimony indicating that he commented on her underwear
more than once. The Panel agrees with the ALJ’s analysis.

The Panel denies the Respondent’s exception. The Panel finds that the Respondent’s
demeaning conduct toward Complainant 1, specifically telling her to put the Medtronic balls in
her mouth, placing his hand on her chest partially inside her scrub shirt without her consent,
touching Complainant 1’s back without her consent, and commenting on the color of her
underwear constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health
Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64.

B. Individual 7

The Respondent takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that the Respondent engaged in
sexual misconduct for saying to Individual 7, after following her into the OR, that “[i]t’s a good
thing you have a cute little butt so you can squeeze through.” Individual 7 was an OR housekeeper
who sterilized the OR rooms. The Respondent testified before the ALJ, “I had no idea who
[Individual 7] was. I wouldn’t have been able to pick her out of a lineup. I have never spoken to
{Individual 7]. I didn’t know who she was until she showed up here.” The Respondent argues that
Individual 7’s testimony was influenced by statements made by others at the Hospital about the

Respondent.

33
 

The Panel does not have any doubt from Individual 7’s testimony that she worked at the
Hospital during a time that the Respondent worked there. And the Panel finds plausible that the
Respondent would not be able to pick Individual 7 out of a line-up, as Individual 7 made clear, she
tried to avoid interactions with him, and Individual 7’s employment position at the Hospital was
one in which she could mostly avoid interacting with the Respondent. But the Panel finds false
the Respondent’s testimony that he had “never spoken with [Individual 7].” Stating that he had
never spoken with Individual 7 means that the Respondent testified that he never even said
something as innocuous as “hi,” “hey,” “good morning,” or something along those lines to
Individual 7. Considering the many occasions throughout the evidentiary hearing that the
Respondent testified that he did not recall specific comments or incidents, it is unclear to the Panel
how the Respondent could be certain that he never spoken with Individual 7. The Respondent may
not recall making the statement at issue to Individual 7, but that is different from having “never
spoken to” her. The Panel gives minimal weight to his statement that he never spoke with
Individual 7. The Respondent’s exception is denied. The Panel finds Individual 7’s testimony
entirely plausible, reasonable, and credible and thus finds that the Respondent said to Individual 7
that it was a good thing she had a cute, little butt. This comment about Individual 7’s buttocks is
exceedingly inappropriate in a medical setting and thus the Respondent, for this comment in the
Hospital and constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health

Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

'2 Because the sexual misconduct regulations the ALJ cited were not in effect at the time that the
Respondent made this comment to Individual 7, the Panel does not address whether the sexual
misconduct regulations were violated. But the Panel does find that the Respondent’s statement to
Individual 7 at issue is unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article. See also Banks, 354 Md. at 62-63. The Respondent
also challenged that ALJ’s findings that the Respondent’s conduct violated the sexual misconduct
regulations for Individuals 6 and 11. Thus, the Panel likewise also does not address the sexual

34
C. Individual 10

The ALJ found that when Individual 10 was a patient of the Respondent, the Respondent
grabbed her breasts at his private practice office and touched her vagina during pre-op ‘at the
Hospital. The Respondent mentions the informed consent procedures and administrative duties
at the Respondent’s office in what appears to be an attempt to show that Individual 10 was not left
alone with the Respondent. The Respondent states, “[Individual 10]’s account had Respondent
involved in these activities which conflicted with the medical records and Respondent's role in
patient encounters.” The Respondent does not identify the “medical records” he mentions, nor
does the Respondent identify what account by Individual 10 relates to this issue. The ALJ decision
discussed the medical records in extensive detail, but the Respondent does not address the specific
records the ALJ analyzed nor the ALJ’s discussion of those records.

In any case, the office visit medical record for Individual 10’s March 16, 2017, visit was
generated by the Respondent and identifies the Respondent as the provider. This document
describes the assessment/plan, stating that the Respondent recommends a “synovial cyst resection
and hemilaminectoiny,” and it also mentions the Respondent’s discussion of pars fractures that
could some day require “fusion.” This medical record, which was generated by the Respondent,
then states, “J discussed the risks benefits and alternatives with the patient including lumbar fusion
however despite the risks, the patient would like to proceed.” (Italics added.) The Respondent
makes a further claim concerning “[Individual 10]’s report” and “informed consent and pre-

operative interviews.” This claim also does not cite to the evidentiary record.

misconduct regulations with respect to the Respondent’s behavior at issue involving Individuals 6
and 11.

35
 

Moreover, the Respondent’s physician assistant, Individual 9 testified that it was not a
rarity for the Respondent to be involved with consents:

Q. .... And typically that work in preparing the patients would
have been strictly your province during the time that you were
working there. Is that right?

A {Individual 9]. Not necessarily, no. Dr. Benalcazar consented
some patients.

Q. Some patients?

A. — Yeah, he did.

Q. That was a rarity?

A. No, not a rarity I would say.

In any case, the medical records and testimony concerning “informed consent and pre-operative
interviews” are consistent with the ALJ’s findings.

The Respondent also argues that “[pjrior to [Individual 10]’s second surgery” a nurse
interviewed Individual 10 to assess Individual 10’s mental status. The Respondent asserts that
during this interview “[Individual 10] did not disclose any distress or other psychological injury
suffered at the hands of Respondent or any other person. The contemporaneous report belies the
later report of alleged misconduct.” Bout, the ALJ wrote:

The Respondent argued that [Individual 10] should not be

believed because when she went to the hospital’s emergency room

on March 30, 2017, the day before her second surgery, staff asked

her psychological questions, and she did not disclose any

psychological distress. Nevertheless, her priority was to get

treatment to resolve her inability to stand, which the Respondent

was able to do the next day in her second operation.
The Panel adopts the ALJ’s finding that Individual 10 prioritized her medical treatment at that
time.

The Respondent also relies upon Individual 10 reporting after the first surgery that her

patient experience was “excellent.” The ALJ found, “[i]n a post operative follow-up telephone

call from a person at [the Hospital] on March 30, 2017, [Individual 10] rated her ‘overall

36
 

experience’ at the hospital as ‘Excellent.’” The Panel does not give any significant weight to the
“Excellent” rating. There is no indication from this standard follow-up telephone call that the
caller from the Hospital would appear to Individual 10 to be an optimal candidate for addressing
the Respondent touching her vagina, if she were to disclose his behavior to the Hospital, which
she did not. In any case, the Hospital caller was focused on the customary potential surgical
complications that could be evident the day after an operation, as opposed to focusing on sexual
assault by a surgeon. The caller specifically asked about nausea, a sore throat, hoarseness, pain,
bleeding, drainage, the IV site, medication effectiveness, surgery preparation, and post-op
instructions. It is likely that, while Individual 10 was in the middle of her spinal surgeries, she
wanted the medical providers focused strictly on the medical issues, and not distracted by serious
and sensitive allegations against one of their colleagues. The “Excellent” rating adds insignificant
value with respect to weighing Individual 10’s allegations and testimony.

The ALJ found Individual 10 credible, stating, “I found [Individual 10]’s testimonial
demeanor very credible. Her answers were clear and forthright. She did not exaggerate or
embellish. She showed what I perceived as genuine emotion as she described a painful memory.”
The Panel accepts the ALJ’s credibility determination on Individual 10.

The ALJ found that the Respondent’s misconduct concerning Individual 10 constitutes
immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Panel agrees with these
conclusions. The Respondent’s exceptions with respect to Individual 10 are denied. The
Respondent is guilty of immoral conduct in the practice of medicine and unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), for saying to

Individual 10 how “nice” her “ass” was and for grabbing Individual 10’s breasts and touching her

37
vagina, which were without medical purpose and without consent. See also Shirazi, 199 Md, App.
at 472-76.

D. Individual 6

The ALJ found that, on three occasions and without Individual 6’s consent, the Respondent
touched Individual 6’s shoulders as if to give her a massage while Individual 6 was sitting at her
desk. On exceptions, the Respondent argues that the evidence does not support the ALJ’s
conclusion that this constitutes sexual misconduct. According to the Respondent, the “testimony
from others was that Respondent was an equal opportunity ‘hugger’ and exhibited collegial forms
of interpersonal touching with both men and women. The type of interaction was described by
[Individual 8] and others.” The Respondent then questions how conduct in one instance is
“unquestionably benign” and in another instance “deemed sexually charged” when there is no
“appreciable difference.”

The Respondent's conduct that Individual 8 testified to was clearly not-always “collegial”
or “benign.” For instance, Individual 8 testified that Complainant 2 was uncomfortable with the
Respondent touching her. Despite clear indications that certain touching was unwanted and not
consented to, the Respondent continued to touch Individual 6. Moreover, the Panel is not
convinced that the Respondent was an “equal opportunity” hugger and toucher of both men and

women, Individual 9, a male physician assistant, testified:

And who would he hug that you saw?
The -- the nurse, the tech, I mean —
Did he ever hug you, [Individual 9]?
No, I don’t think so.
Did you observe him hug other men?
No.
. Did you ever observe the respondent touch other men’s
necks or shoulders?
A. No.

QOPOPOPL

38

 

i
i
I
A male Medtronic sales representative testified that he hugged the Respondent, but he explained
that he, not the Respondent, initiated their hugs.

The Respondent also argues that “nothing in the ALJ’s opinion addressed the obvious bias
of the witness toward the Respondent.” However, the ALJ found, “[Individual 6]’s testimony and
demeanor revealed she feels a rather strong antipathy toward the Respondent.” The ALJ,
nonetheless, found her testimony credible. The Panel, also, finds her testimony credible. The
Respondent’s touching of Individual 6 is consistent with the Respondent’s behavior at the
Hospital. Individual 9 was asked to describe what some of the Respondent’s touching might look
like and testified, “Just like massage type thing on the shoulders.”

Tt does appear that Individual 6 does harbor antipathy toward the Respondent, but that by
itself does not significantly impair her credibility. It should come as‘no surprise that victims might
harbor negative feeling toward those who mistreated them. Nor does her antipathy suggest that
the Respondent's touching was benign. The exception is denied. The Respondents touching of
Individual 6’s shoulders as if to give her a massage on three occasions, with no consent and with
clear indications that it was unwanted, constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). See also Banks, 354 Mad. at 62.

E. Individual 1

Individual 11 worked for 10 months at the Hospital, from November 2017 through August
2018, where she worked as a circulating nurse in the OR. One day, while in the OR at the Hospital,
toward the end of the case, while the patient was still also in the OR, Individual 11 was filling out
paperwork concerning a neck/spine operation. Individual 11 testified that she was at a counter in
the OR completing paperwork and the Respondent approached her from. behind and “tickled” her

sides, which scared her. The Respondent said, “I guess you didn’t like that?” Individual 11 made

39

/

 
which he has worked and conducted an under-oath interview with the
Respondent.

9. The Board’s investigation determined that for a period of several years, the
Respondent engaged in a pattern of unprofessional conduct that included, but
was not limited to, sexual harassment of hospital staff, both verbal and physical,
sexual propositioning, and unconsented-to physical contact of at least one
patient. The Respondent’s conduct proceeded largely unchecked over a period
of time due in-part to staff members’ perceptions that any complaints about his
conduct would not be acted upon at the organizational level.

10. The investigation of the Respondent’s conduct is set forth in pertinent part

below.

 

Complainant 1

11.On or about January 20, 2021, Board staff conducted an interview with
Complainant 1, a surgical nurse who worked at the Hospital from 2004 through
2018. In the under-oath interview, Complainant 1 stated:

a. For a while her working relationship with the Respondent was
unremarkable. Eventually the Respondent began to make comments
about her underwear saying, “sometimes you just lean down, your scrubs
are loose and say whoa, | see your pink underwear, your black underwear
or whatever it is...it was never really any more than that until the one
day.”

b. She described an incident during a procedure where they were using a
piece of equipment that “has all these silver balls on it.” She stated that at
the end of the case the balls fell on the floor, so she picked one of them
up and put it in the Respondent’s pocket. The Respondent then asks
Complainant | “why don’t you put them in your mouth?” Complainant 1

5
 

it clear to the Respondent that she did not want him to touch her. Individual 11 said that when the
Respondent tickled her, she “stopped filling out my paperwork to confront Dr. Benalcazar.”
Individual 11 testified that, at the time she was tickled, she was filling out a form concerning
biological agents used for surgery. Individual 11 also said that the Respondent tickling her made
her. “uncomfortable” and “upset and a little angry.” When asked whether the tickling was
distracting, Individual 11 answered, “Yes.”

The Respondent took exception to the ALJ’s finding that he tickled Individual 11. The
Respondent testified that he grabbed Individual 11’s shoulders to get her attention to tell her
something that she needed to do. He did not acknowledge tickling Individual 11. In any case, the
Panel does not find the Respondent credible, while Individual 11’s testimony was straightforward,
detailed, and reasonable. The Panel finds Individual 11 credible and accepts her testimony. The
Respondent’s exception is denied.

The Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in vidlation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), for tickling Individual 11.

Vv. EXCEPTIONS - DUE PROCESS

A. Demand Letter

Before the ALJ, the Respondent argued that his due process rights had been violated,
because the Board investigator omitted the Demand Letter from the index of documents provided
to the panel that voted for the charges. The ALJ did not find a due process violation. The ALJ
found that Panel A, the Board disciplinary panel that voted for the charges, had actual knowledge
of the Demand Letter when it voted to issue charges. The Respondent discussed the Demand
Letter in his interviews with the Board investigators, which were recorded in transcripts. Second,

the ALJ relied on the fact that the Demand Letter was admitted into evidence at the hearing before

40

'
:
;
:
:
;
:

 
 

the ALJ. The ALJ noted that the Respondent used the Demand Letter to “strongly” cross-examine
Complainant 2. The ALJ concluded, “[wJhile not endorsing the letter’s omission from the
investigator’s index, I conclude that the Board’s handling of the letter (of which the Board had
actual knowledge) in its investigative phase did not violate the Respondent’s right to due process
or otherwise taint the proceeding.”

On exceptions, the Respondent argues that the ALJ erred in finding no due process
violation. According to the Respondent, the Demand Letter was essential to judge Complainant
2’s credibility and thus essential to judging her allegations against the Respondent. Even more,
the Respondent argues that Complainant 2 “solicited and marshalled a legion of her friends and
associates to come forward in an effort to further malign the Respondent.” Taking all this together,
the Respondent argues that the entire process was affected to such an extent that the Respondent
was denied a “fair and just hearing.”

Panel B, however, is not persuaded that any deficiency in the charging process with respect
to the Demand Letter caused a defect in the evidentiary hearing, and the Panel certainly does not
find that any deficiency in the charging process with respect to the Demand Letter affected the
evidentiary hearing to such an extent that the Respondent was denied a “fair and just” evidentiary
hearing. The Respondent offered the Demand Letter into evidence at the hearing before the ALJ,
and it was admitted into evidence. And, as the ALJ noted, the Demand Letter was “strongly” used
to cross-examine Complainant 2. .

The Respondent also asserts in his exceptions that

[i]fa prosecutor denied a defendant evidence of an extortion demand
made by a witness, let alone a complainant, it is clear that a court of
competent jurisdiction would not summarily dismiss claims about

due process violation, as the ALJ in the instant case has done. To
the contrary, the court would almost certainly agree with the

41

 
Respondent that the actions ran afoul of the due process protections
afforded him under the Constitution.

There is, however, no allegation that Board staff failed to disclose the Demand Letter to the
Respondent, as the Respondent was in possession of the Demand Letter before the Board staff had
it.

In response to the Respondent’s argument that the Board staff purposefully withheld the
Demand Letter from the disciplinary panel that voted for charges, the ALI relied, by analogy, upon
United States v. Williams, 504 U.S. 36 (1992), and summarized the ruling, stating that a “federal
court may not dismiss an otherwise valid indictment because the Government failed to disclose to
the grand jury substantial exculpatory evidence in its possession; the exculpatory evidence can be
presented at trial.” The Supreme Court ruled that the grand jury had no obligation to consider all
“substantial exculpatory” evidence and that the prosecutor had no obligation to present it.
Williams, 504 U.S. at 53. Likewise, in Clark v. State, 140 Md. App. 540 (2001), the prosecutor
allowed an expert witness to testify to the grand jury that blood recovered in the victim’s bedroom
could have come from the defendant, when the prosecutor knew of another DNA test that excluded
the defendant. The prosecutor did not present the negative test result to the grand jury. Relying
upon Williams, the Court of Special Appeals did not dismiss the indictment. Clark, 140 Md. App.
at.557-63. With all that said, it is not apparent that a court would find a due process violation if
the circumstances alleged by the Respondent here occurred in a criminal proceeding. The
Respondent was interviewed twice by Board investigators, and, each time, the Respondent
discussed the Demand Letter. A Board investigator testified that she inadvertently omitted the
Demand Letter from the investigative index and thus it was not produced for the panel when voting

for charges. The Panel accepts that the omission was inadvertent.

42
In support of his argument that the Demand Letter demonstrates Complainant 2’s lack of
credibility, the Respondent offers Maryland Rule 5-608(b), which allows for “any witness to be
examined regarding the witness’s own prior conduct that did not result in a conviction but that the
court finds probative ofa character trait of untruthfulness.”'? The Panel does not find this argument
compelling. Rule 5-608(b) relates to the scope of an examination of a witness, finding certain acts
sufficiently probative of credibility to allow a witness to be questioned about those acts.'4 The
Respondent does not allege that the ALJ prevented or curtailed his cross examination of
Complainant 2 with respect to the Demand Letter. The Panel agrees that the Demand Letter is
relevant to the questioning of Complainant 2 with respect to her credibility, because the Demand
Letter certainly could reflect on Complainant 2’s credibility. But Rule 5-608(b) does not provide
for the weight that should be given to the witness’s testimony after the witness has been examined.

The ALJ did not find that the Demand Letter undermined Complainant 2’s testimony to
any significant degree. The ALJ thoroughly considered the Demand Letter with respect to
Complainant 2’s credibility, but the ALJ mostly credited, accepted, and relied upon Complainant
2’s testimony concerning the slapping of the patient’s buttocks, the inappropriate behavior of the
Respondent when he examined her back, and the Respondent’s incessant sexual harassment of
Complainant 2. For instance, the ALJ wrote, “[h]aving weighed all the evidence, I credit

Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent regularly sexually harassed her.” The ALJ’s

'3 To be clear, Rule 5-608 is a rule of evidence for courts, while in administrative hearings the
admission of evidence is governed by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-213.

' The Respondent also asserts that Complainant 2 “essentially admitted each and every of the
elements constituting the felonious offense of Extortion under the Criminal Law Article of the
Annotated Code of Maryland, § 3-701(b)(2).” The Respondent does not mention the elements or
facts that meet those elements. The Panel does not make a finding on whether Complainant 2
committed the criminal offense of extortion. The Demand Letter was admitted into evidence, and
the Respondent cross examined Complainant 2 about the Demand Letter.

43

 

|
|
|

 
 

reasoning for mostly accepting and crediting Complainant 2’s testimony included the testimony of
other witnesses who corroborated her testimony.

Certain details of Complainant 2’s testimony were not accepted by the ALJ, but overall
Complainant 2’s testimony was largely accepted. In terms of the details that the ALJ found
implausible, Complainant 2, according to the ALJ, testified that she did not understand that the
Demand Letter was for the purpose of extracting money from the Respondent. The ALI explained,
after finding this implausible, that he was not applying the maxim “Falsus in uno, falsus in
omnibus” (“False in one thing, false in everything”). The Panel assumes the ALJ was referring to
Complainant 2’s testimony in which she stated, “I did not realize that the letter was implying that
I was trying to get money from Dr. Benalcazar in any way.” At first glance, without context, this
statement by Complainant 2 certainly does seem to indicate that she did not know that, through
the Demand Letter, she was asking for money in exchange for not reporting him to various
authorities. But, when asked to confirm that she did not realize that the Demand Letter was seeking
five million dollars from the Respondent, Complainant 2 responded, “I did not expect that.” In
context, Complainant 2’s testimony on this issue appears to the Panel to mean that Complainant 2
did not expect that her obtaining legal representation would result in her asking for money.
Complainant 2 explained that she wanted to report the Respondent’s conduct to the Board but “I
had a problem because I did not want to lose my job.” Thus, before reporting to the Board, she
hired an attorney. Complainant 2 further explained that the strategy for dealing with the
Respondent was developed by her attorney. It also appears to the Panel that, at this stage in her
testimony, Complainant 2 was being a bit evasive in her responses. In any case, it is obvious that
Complainant 2 did know, from at least having read the Demand Letter prior to it being sent to the

Respondent, that she was asking for money. Complainant 2 could have been more responsive, or

44
at least more clear, in her answers concerning the Demand Letter, but Panel B finds Complainant
2 credible and finds that the Demand Letter and testimony with respect to the Demand Letter does
not diminish her credibility to any significant degree.

The Demand Letter does not reflect positively on Complainant 2 in that it indicates her
willingness to place her own financial interest before protecting the patients and employees of the
Hospital from the Respondent’s misconduct. The Demand Letter could also indicate a bias on
Complainant 2's part based upon the financial interest she has in her lawsuit against the
Respondent. But, after considering these factors, in general, the Panel finds her testimony credible
and reliable. The Demand Letter is based upon her allegations that she suffered from the
Respondent’s sexual harassment toward her. The Demand Letter appears consistent with her
testimony concerning the substance of the Respondent’s unprofessional behavior.

In any event, in terms of her truthfulness, the Panel finds that the corroboration of
Complainant 2’s testimony by other witnesses far outweighs any character flaws and bias of
Complainant 2 that the Panel infers from the Demand Letter, For instance, Complainant 2’s
testimony concerning the Respondent’s statement to her that he wanted to spank her was
corroborated by Individual 3. Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent grabbed her hair
bun and used it to jerk her head around was corroborated by Individual 8. Complainant 2’s
testimony concerning the Respondent’s routine, unwanted touching of her was corroborated by
Individual 9. And Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent slapped the buttocks of the
anesthetized patient was corroborated by Individuals 5 and 9.

The Panel finds that the ALJ correctly found no due process violation concerning the
Demand Letter, and there is no conduct of the Board staff related to the Demand Letter that entitles

the Respondent to any relief. The exception is denied.

45

:

|
'

 
 

 

 

B. Investigation — Witness Statements

The Respondent argues that “the investigative process was further irreparably corrupted in
the manner through which the Board obtained witness statements.” The basis for the Respondent’s
exception is his allegation that the interviews conducted by the Board’s investigators were “rife
with leading and suggestive questions.” The Respondent does not provide any legal authority to
support this exception. The Panel does not find that leading and suggestive questions by the Board
investigators is a due process violation. The exception is denied. —

The Respondent further asserts in his exceptions that the ALJ erred by not finding a due
process violation for the Board staff declining “Respondent’s request that it interview [the
Hospital’s charge nurse] . . . and that repeated attempts to request a full investigation, only after
charges were filed did the Board seek to interview [the Hospital’s director of perioperative
services], another critical witness.” The Respondent does not provide any relevant legal authority
indicating that the Board staff’s actions constitute a due process violation, nor does the Respondent
explain how these investigative decisions amount to a due process violation. It should also be
noted that both [the charge nurse and perioperative director] were called as witnesses by the
Respondent and testified before the ALJ. The ALJ found “[t]here was nothing so substantially
exculpatory about the testimony of either [the charge nurse or the perioperative director] that would
have made it fundamentally unfair, rising to the level of a due process violation, for the Board not
to have interviewed them before it approved the charges.” The ALJ relied upon language in Rosov
v. Maryland Board of Dental Examiners, 163 Md. App. 98, 115 (2005), stating that the court knows
of “no requirement, either in law or investigative technique, that compels an investigative agency,
prior to charging, to include the investigation target or counsel in the interview process.” The ALJ

then explained, “[i]t follows that the Board was not required to interview each person suggested

46
by the Respondent, particularly where the two witnesses in question were available and testified
for the Respondent at the adjudicatory hearing.” The ALJ ruled there was no due process violation.
The ALJ did not err. The exception is denied.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The Respondent’s actions and comments, which resulted in Panel B’s findings and

conclusions, set forth above, that he is guilty of unprofessional and/or immoral conduct in the
practice of medicine, were unbecoming of a physician in good standing in the profession, see
Finucan, 380 Md. at 593, and breached the ethical code of his profession. See id His
unprofessional conduct was disruptive in the Hospital and potentially negatively affected patient
care, in violation of AMA Opinions 9.4.4 and 9.045. The ALJ found that the Respondent’s
unprofessional conduct was a distraction in the OR. The Panel accepts this ALJ finding. Individual
5, an OR nurse, when she was interviewed, testified about how the Respondent’s behavior affected
work:

.... E don’t want to say it impairs you 100 percent, but you definitely

are — are impaired, because you’re also worried about how you have

to avoid either conversation with a surgeon -- which is impossible

to avoid when you’re working in a surgical area like that, because

you need to talk to him, you need to have open communication, and

you kind of have to forget those things that happened, and treat every

day like a new day, and that’s really difficult when you do

experience things and know things that have happened.

When Individual 11 asked whether the Respondent tickling her in the OR was distracting,

Individual 11 answered, “Yes.” When Individual 9 was asked whether the Respondent’s touching
of female staff interfered with work in the OR, Individual 9 answered, “Yes.” Individual 9

explained, “The nurse and the tech were pre-occupied and they would always be thinking about

what was going to happen.” The Respondent’s behavior distracted the Hospital’s medical staff

47
and degraded the teamwork approach that is necessary for proper medical care. Complainant 2
testified about her concerns after witnessing the Respondent slapping the Patient’s buttocks:

And when he did these things towards one of his patients | felt there

was no line that he would not cross. That I had to somehow remove

myself from his OR and change my schedule to do something about

this.

The Respondent’s sexual harassment of Complainant 2, by itself, was more threatening to
patient safety than the conduct of Dr. Banks for which Dr. Banks was sanctioned under § 14-
404(a)(3). Dr. Banks’ victims were hospital staff, such as unit secretaries, who did not directly
provide care, while Complainant 2 worked in the OR as a surgical technologist. See Banks, 354
Md. at 62-63.

The Panel also finds the Respondent’s slapping of the anesthetized patient’s buttocks and
his unwanted and unauthorized grabbing of Individual 10’s breasts and touching of Individual 10’s
vagina shows that the Respondent was clearly not dedicated to preserving those patients’ human
dignity, in violation of Principle I of the AMA’s Principles. Further, as in Shirazi, the Respondent
“used his position as a physician to take advantage of... women who relied on him for their
medical treatment.” Shirazi, 199 Md. App. at 478.

Based upon the findings of fact, discussion, and reasons set forth in this decision, Panel B
concludes that the Respondent is guilty of: immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i); and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

THE SANCTION

The ALJ recommended the revocation of the Respondent’s license and that the Respondent

could apply for reinstatement after one year. The Respondent took exception. The Respondent

argues for an 18-month suspension that would begin retroactively from the date his license was

48
 

 

summarily suspended. The Respondent asserts that his conduct did not have “the potential to or
actually cause harm to any patient.” The record does not support the Respondent’s assertion.
There were two patients who suffered actual harm by having sexualized body parts intentionally
touched by the Respondent without their consent. These patients were highly vulnerable. In fact,
one of the patients was anesthetized at the time. The other patient testified that she did not address
the Respondent’s conduct with him because:
I didn’t want to have to talk to him. My pain went away. He

fixed my back but personally I did not want to have any contact with

him or talk to him after that and I didn’t want anyone to know what

happened because I felt ashamed that it happened.
Moreover, the Respondent’s disruptive conduct distracted staff from focusing on patient care and
degraded the teamwork approach that is necessary for the effective delivery of health care as he
antagonized, demeaned, shocked, and frightened employees of the Hospital.

The Respondent’s exceptions also argue that the “testimony made clear that after
Respondent was admonished in the [Hospital’s] Medical Staff process, no further incidents of any
kind were reported.”'> Considering the context, the Panel is not convinced that this shows that the
Respondent is not a real threat to patients and to patient care. The evidence indicates that Hospital
employees were fearful of making reports against the Respondent and that they had little faith that

any report by them would result in the Respondent being held accountable. Complainant 2 was

reluctant to make a report because she did not feel she had the support of her supervisors. In fact,

'S The Panel believes that the Respondent’s argument was intended to mean that there were no
reports or complaints after the Hospital reprimanded the Respondent for misconduct occurring
after the reprimand. The record shows reports or complaints of the Respondent’s misconduct
submitted after the Hospital’s reprimand for misconduct which occurred before the Hospital
reprimanded the Respondent.

49

 
