IN THE MATTER OF

ASHLEY C. WILLIS, M.D.

Respondent

License Number: D63773

* * * * *

BEFORE THE
MARYLAND STATE
BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

Case Number: 2223-0125B

* * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

On January 11, 2024, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B” or the “Panel”) of the

Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Ashley C. Willis, M.D. (the

“Respondent”), under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. Panel B charged the Respondent under the following

provisions of the Act:

Health Occ. § 14-404. License denial, suspension, or revocation.

(a) In general. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the

licensee:

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent[.]

On February 28, 2024, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for

Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result

of this DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of

Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B makes the following Findings of Fact:
Background/Licensing information

1, The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in
Maryland on October 11, 2005, under License Number D63773. The Respondent’s license
expires on September 30, 2025, subject to renewal.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in Internal Medicine.

3. At all relevant times, the Respondent practiced at a health care facility (the
“Facility”)! in Maryland.

4. On January 9, 2024, Panel B issued an Order for Summary Suspension of
License to Practice Medicine, in which it summarily suspended the Respondent’s
Maryland medical license after determining that she has a health condition that affects her
ability to practice medicine safely. Panel B took such action pursuant to its authority under
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”)
10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires
emergency action.

The Complaint

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a

complaint (the “Complaint”) on February 27, 2023, from a family member (the

“Complainant”) of a patient (the “Patient”) of the Respondent. The Complainant alleged

’ For confidentiality reasons, the name of the health care facility, and the identity of the Complainant, the
Patient, and any other individuals referenced herein, will not be disclosed in this document.

2

 
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order; and
it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Consent
Order; and it is further
ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of the suspension and MPRP finds and notifies the Board that it is safe for the Respondent
to return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the
Board to terminate the suspension. A Board disciplinary panel will determine whether the
suspension is terminated. The Respondent shall appear before the disciplinary panel to
discuss her petition. If a Board disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated, and
the disciplinary panel will issue an order with the terms and conditions it determines are
reasonable and appropriate, which may include, but are not limited to, probation and
_ probationary terms and conditions. If, after considering MPRP’s determination that it is
safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the disciplinary panel
determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the
suspension shall remain in effect under the terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
finds reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order goes into effect upon the signature of the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee

signs the Consent Order on behalf of Panel B; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If a disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if a disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or impose a further
suspension of the Respondent’s medical license with appropriate terms and conditions, or
revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel
may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary
fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

oalapory Signature On File

Christine A. Farrell¥, Hxec gphser

Maryland State Board of Physicians

12
CONSENT

I, Ashley C. Willis, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this Consent Order.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the Panel will not entertain any request for amendments or
modifications to any condition.

L assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405, and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the charges. I waive this right and elect to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
Panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order. I
voluntarily enter into, and agree to comply, with the terms and conditions set forth in this
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in this Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand its language and
the meaning of its terms and conditions.

Signature On File
ule

Date Ashley C. Willis, M.D.
Respondent

 
NOTARY

STATE OF M cury land

 

ciryicounTy oF Howyaya
— +h
i+
I HEREBY CERTIFY that, on this O day of

2024, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

Marth.

State and City/County, did personally appear Ashley C. Willis, M.D. and made oath in due

 

form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and seal.

Notary Baek

My commission expires: \ LO fi

nti My
NZO Mg,

RS
s oe sl %
s oer" Pug; My

aw
“rye

 

‘Ny, iis

“Uy

.
er “

“ay leg sues sanee nae

“ng A U' a

1D Col
“tt

14
that the Respondent acted in a belligerent, verbally abusive and unprofessional manner
toward the Patient during office visits in January and February 2023, such that the Patient,
who was severely debilitated due to significant medical conditions, was afraid to return for
follow-up care with the Respondent. The Complainant stated that the Respondent
improperly filled out the Patient’s insurance paperwork, necessitating the Patient to return
for a follow-up visit to correct the error. When the Patient brought the error to the
Respondent’s attention, the Respondent became “furious and belittled [the Patient’s] well-
being and instability.” The Complainant referred to the Respondent’s conduct as being
“unethical and inhumane.”
Board Investigation

6. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained the Respondent’s written
response to the Complaint, interviewed the Respondent, reviewed documents the
Respondent submitted to the Board, obtained a portion of the Respondent’s medical
records, and referred the Respondent for an evaluation after the Respondent acted in an
aberrant manner during the investigation.
Respondent’s written response

7. By letter dated March 1, 2023, the Board notified the Respondent that a
complaint had been filed against her and that it had opened a preliminary investigation into
the matter. The Board provided the Respondent with a copy of the complaint and requested
that she address the Complaint in a written response.

8. By email to the Board dated March 13, 2023, the Respondent submitted her
written response to the allegations that were set forth in the Complaint. The Respondent’s

3
response was incoherent and did not directly address her behavior toward the Patient.
When commenting on her documentation, the Respondent stated, “Didn’t realize how
sparse my note was until I looked at it.”

Subpoena for patient records and response

9. By letter dated August 9, 2023, the Board informed the Respondent that it
had opened an expanded investigation of the Complaint. The letter contained a subpoena
duces tecum for nine patient records, to be returned within ten business days. The cover
letter also requested that the Respondent provide a summary of care for each patient and
provide signed Certification of Medical Records forms for each patient.

10. On August 23, 2023, the Respondent, through office staff at the Facility
where she practiced, provided the nine requested records. In a separate mailing dated
August 23, 2023, the Respondent provided brief summaries of care for each patient. In
addition, the Respondent submitted over 50 pages of documents that addressed religious
and secular subjects, mainly consisting of poems, with and without illustrations. These
documents were wholly unrelated to any of the patients whose records were subpoenaed
or the issues involved in the Complaint.

Respondent’s interview

11. Through a letter and subpoena ad testificandum dated October 19, 2023, the

Board directed the Respondent to appear for an in-person, under-oath interview at the

Board’s offices on November 2, 2023.
12. By email dated October 30, 2023, the Respondent requested that her
interview be rescheduled, claiming that she had a scheduling conflict. The Board
rescheduled the interview for November 8, 2023.

13. Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the Respondent on
November 8, 2023. The Respondent arrived approximately one-half hour late for the
interview. The Respondent exhibited unusual behavior during the interview, which
included not making eye contact with Board staff and acting in a nervous manner. The
Respondent spoke in a whisper during the interview and exhibited other unusual behavioral
mannerisms, including twitching eyes.

14. Board staff informed the Respondent that they were unable to follow her
previously submitted written response to the Complaint and requested that she address the
allegations in her own words. Despite this request, the Respondent proceeded to read her
written response verbatim, including grammatical errors, on the record. When Board staff
asked the Respondent to refrain from reading her written response, the Respondent spoke
over Board staff and continued to read aloud her written response verbatim.

15. During the interview, Board staff asked the Respondent several “yes” or “no”
questions, to which the Respondent answered by nodding her head; when Board staff asked
the Respondent to verbalize her responses, the Respondent continued to nod her head in
response to questions posed throughout the interview. The Respondent spoke in a manner
that required Board staff to ask her several times to speak in a louder, more audible voice.

The Respondent took long pauses before answering questions and had difficulty giving
direct responses, and in response to some questions, struggled to form any sort of response.
The Respondent would often ask Board staff to repeat their questions.

16. During the interview, the Respondent discussed her medical and medication
history. When Board staff asked the Respondent to address her practice of initiating
discussions with patients on her views of religious doctrine, she stated that she tells her
patients to pray to Jesus. After Board staff concluded recording the interview, the
Respondent continued to make several comments about religious subjects, including that
she “loves God” and “loves Jesus.”

17. About two hours after concluding the interview, the Respondent returned to
the Board’s offices and stated that she had lost her cell phone. Board staff helped the
Respondent look for the cell phone but could not find it. While standing near the building
elevators, the Respondent again told Board staff that she “loves God” and hopes that was
made clear no matter what she said during the interview. In response to Board staff stating
that they would inform the Respondent if they found her cell phone, the Respondent stated,
“God is magnificent” and to always remember that.

Referral for evaluation and findings

? For confidentiality and/or privacy reasons, the specific information the Respondent disclosed will not be
stated in this document. Panel B was aware of this information at the time it voted to summarily suspend
the Respondent’s medical license.
18. As part of the Board’s investigation, the Board, pursuant to Health Occ. §
14-402(a),? referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an
independent evaluation to determine her present competency to practice medicine.

19, By letter dated November 15, 2023, the Board notified the Respondent that
her evaluation would be conducted on November 27, 2023. On the morning of November
27, 2023, prior to the time scheduled for the interview, the Respondent requested that the
evaluation be rescheduled, which the Program denied. The Respondent failed to present
to the Program for the evaluation. The Board then rescheduled the evaluation for
November 29, 2023. The Respondent did not present to the Program for the evaluation on
that date, however.

20. By email dated December 1, 2023, the Board requested that the Respondent
explain in writing why she failed to appear for both of the above appointments. The
Respondent responded in an email dated December 1, 2023, stating, “I do not smoke
cigarettes, drink alcohol, smoke marijuana or any other drug so I do not need rehab for any
reason. Sorry, I missed your letter for an appointment. Please let me reschedule and I
promise to attend.”

21. The Board then scheduled the evaluation for December 6, 2023. On that

date, a team of Program evaluators met with and evaluated the Respondent. The Program

3 Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure or in investigating an allegation
brought against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title,
the Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board or a disciplinary panel
on its own initiative may direct, the licensed physician or any allied health professional to an appropriate
examination.

 
evaluators unanimously concluded that based on the Respondent’s writings, interviews,
behavior during the evaluation, complex medical history and other pertinent information,
the Respondent “is not able to practice medicine safely.”4

22, After performing the evaluation, the Program, on December 8, 2023,
requested that the Respondent enter into a practice cessation agreement and sent her a
practice cessation agreement form for that purpose. Although the Respondent agreed to
cease practicing medicine, the Respondent has not signed the practice cessation agreement.
Other email correspondence

23. Shortly after the above evaluation, the Respondent sent a barrage of emails
to the Board in which she attached: her medical records, including several imaging studies;
poems she claimed she wrote, some of which contained religious content; photographs;
and published medical information on bipolar disorder. Most of the emails were wholly
unrelated to the Complaint or other issues that are pertinent to this matter.

24, The Respondent also sent many of the same emails to the Program, which
forwarded them to the Board. Many of the emails the Respondent sent the Program were
unrelated to the Complaint or other issues that are pertinent to this matter.

25. In response, the Program, on December 15, 2023, emailed the Respondent

and requested that she refrain from sending any further emails to the Program.

4 For confidentiality and/or privacy reasons, the specific information contained in the report will not be
disclosed in this document.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes that the Respondent is
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(4).
ORDER
It is, thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby
ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice
Medicine (“Order for Summary Suspension”), issued against the Respondent, on January
9, 2024, and the order affirming the Order for Summary Suspension, issued on January 25,
2024, are terminated as moot based upon the suspension ordered in this Consent Order;
and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED.* During the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the following
terms and conditions of suspension:
1. During the suspension period, the Respondent, in Maryland, shall not:
(a) practice medicine;
(b) take any actions to hold herself out to the public as a current provider of
medical services;
(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;
(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

5 If the Respondent’s license expires while the Respondent’s license is suspended, the suspension
will be tolled.
2. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, requirements, and recommendations, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate
and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information to MPRP. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities verbal
and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is
authorized to receive the health care records of the Respondent. The Respondent
shall not withdraw her release/consent;

(f) if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation
program in another state, the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or
condition of that state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this
Consent Order. The Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state written
release/consent forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and
receive from) the out-of-state program verbal and written information concerning
the Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug and
alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw the
release/consent; and

(g) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or

10
