Dennis Glick, M.D.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Dennis Glick, M.D.

License Number: D73381

Case Number: 2223-0116

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”)
§14-403, I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D73381, effective immediately. I understand that upon
surrender of my license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with
or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the
practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 e seg. and other applicable laws. In other
words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender
of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State
of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a referral from the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration reporting concerns regarding my prescribing of controlled
dangerous substances to patients. | have decided to surrender my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid prosecution of these allegations and due to my
current retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery
of quality medical care), and (40) (fails to keep adequate medical records).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Dennis Glick, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. J also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann,, Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seq., and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel
A.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may
impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public
safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

l acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv trulv vours_.
Signature On File

Dennis Glick, M.D.
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Dennis Glick, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF Washi
CITY/COUNTY OF SC.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 22 day of march , 2024 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Dennis Glick, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

  
   
 

Notary Publi

es Re we Pooyan Shafiei Alavijeh
°
My commission expires:03/2 / iE ZozF NOTA PUBLIC OISTINCT OF COLAABIA

My Commission Expifes: March 31, 2027

ACCEPTANCE

f- 4
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this Z1 day of Motch, 2024, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Dennis Glick, M.D.’s license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, Exdeutije Director
Maryland Board of Physici
