Maria Gonzalez Berlari, M.D.

Date: March 27, 2024

‘Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Maria Gonzalez Berlari, M.D.
License Number: D96358
Case Number: 2224-0118A

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant'to Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D96358, effective immediately, I
understand that upon the surrender of my license, 1 may not give medical advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation after receiving information
regarding a disciplinary Order for Letter of Reprimand and Probation of my Arizona
medical license (“Arizona Order”), dated February 7, 2024, The Arizona Medical Board
found that I prescribed controlled substances to immediate family members without
maintaining a medical record and without clinical justification, and further found that I
prescribed myself controlled substances on five occasions. A copy of the Arizona Order
is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution by Panel A based on
discipline by the Arizona Medical Board. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to
medical licensure that the findings and conclusions in the Arizona Order shall be treated as
proven and that these findings and conclusions support a conclusion that I violated Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(21) of the Act (is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority of
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Maria Gonzalez Berlari, M.D.
Letter of Surrender

Page 2

any state for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action under this section), with
an underlying ground of Health Occ. § (3)(ii) (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned findings and conclusions. I do not wish to contest these findings and
conclusions. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

T understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
‘the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.),-and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. | also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A
or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if | file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

Tacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
1 was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to
practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this
Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language,
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

RE: Maria Gonzalez Berlari, M.D.
Letter of Surrender

Page 3
meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly

and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

Maria Gonzalez Berlari, M.D.

NOTARY

STATE OF A aM

CITY/COUNTY OF JZ. \ wo (WU
a il

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 70 day of (lan CA _, 2024 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Maria Gonzalez Berlari,
M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this

Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

  
 
   
  

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Notary Public

My commission expires: (9 | \O| Loxts

     

RAND HADI

NOTARY PUBLIC - ARIZONA
Maricopa Count,

Commission # 636467

ly Commission Expires

September 19, 2026

 

  
   
      
   

ACCEPTANCE

 

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this £] ey of Masi iA , 2024, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Maria Gonzalez Berlari,
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly| Executive Direc
Maryland Board of Physicians
