Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.

December 11, 2017

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.

License Number: D04823

MBP Case Number: 2217-0022 B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to permanently SURRENDER my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D04823, effective
December 23, 2017. I understand that upon the surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.)
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice based on a
hospital report to the Board in February 2017 concerning the automatic relinquishment of
my clinical privileges for failure to complete a provider health evaluation as requested by
the hospital. After considering my age, health, and the demands of my practice, I have
decided to surrender my license, effective December 23, 2017. Between the date of this
letter and its effective date, I will reduce my patient load to no more than 25 patient visits
per day, six days per week.

The surrender of my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland will
resolve the pending actions by the Board regarding my practice of medicine.
Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.

Letter of Surrender

Lic. No. D04823
Page 2

I am waiving my right to contest any pending investigation or allegations of the
Board at a formal evidentiary hearing. In waiving my right to a formal evidentiary
hearing, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to a
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioners’ Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have
surrendered my license in lieu of further action under the Act. I also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Pro. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014 and 2017 Supp.).

1 affirm that as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I will provide my
patients with access to and copies of medical records, upon request, and I acknowledge
that I have a continuing duty, on proper request, to provide a patient's medical record to
the patient, another physician or hospital in accordance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of
the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered permanently, effective December 23, 2017.
I agree I have no right to apply for reinstatement of my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland, and the Board or a disciplinary panel is not obligated to consider any
future application for licensure.

IT acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been
represented by an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I acknowledge that I
understand and comprehend the language, meaning, terms, and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I voluntarily choose to surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine
pursuant to the terms and conditions set out herein. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

fut Aly ur mp
Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.
Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.

Letter of Surrender

Lic. No. D04823
Page 3

NOTARY
sTaTE OF _Marylan
nN.

city/county oF _ Cl

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this | of 10 aay of December, 2017 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D. and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Lo -- a) a nl
Trex Mn L /yncegh
Notary Public

My commission expires: “mM ng | io 201s.

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of the Panel B of Maryland Board of Physicians, on this day of
December, 2017, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.’s SURRENDER of
her license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

(
