Elizabeth Lilly, M.D.

Date: \\ 122] Z20\4

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

RE: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Elizabeth Lilly, M.D.
License Number: D05627
Case Number: 2219-0033B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.’’) §14-403
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D05627, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage
in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq. and other applicable laws. In other words,
as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of
my liccnse means that | am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and
upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board’’).

1 acknowledge that the Board received a complaint regarding my prescribing of controlled
dangerous substances, and initiated an investigation into the allegations. I have decided to
permanently surrender my license in the State of Maryland! to avoid further investigation and
prosecution of these allegations and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant
to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations
support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) and (40).

' Upon Panel B’s acceptance of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, | acknowledge that the Order for Summary
Suspension issued on October 16, 2019 and reaffirmed on October 31, 2019, is terminated as moot.
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: — Elizabeth Lilly, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Permanent Letter of
Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I
do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of
Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event |
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter
of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq.
(2019 Repl. Vol.), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B,
including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender.
I consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter permanently
surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel
B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I
make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File
Elizabath Lilly, M.D. @
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: — Elizabeth Lilly, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF Meurflanrel
citycounty or Anne Anunde|

1] HEREBY CERTIFY that on this UE dey of November, 2019, before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Elizabeth Lilly, M.D., and declared and

affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent Letter of Surrender was

voluntary. a WEL yy
“GRA
Soe Mage %

AS WITNESS ny 1 I seal.
my de a a

at
af =

 

6° wef TS
2%. «PUR ea
% TEN ANE Py cs otary se Dad
WS
My commission expires:
Loni D. Graham
Notary Public
Queen Anne's County, MD

ACCEPTANCE My Commission Explres December 20, 2021

hina t apt 4
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 3 day of November, 2019, I, Christine A.
Farrelly, accept the PERMANENT PUBLIC SURRENDER of Elizabeth Lilly, M.D.’s license

to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

ae on File

Christine A. Farrelly, xec itive aye
Maryland Board of Physi¢ians :
