Joseph H. Miller, M.D.

April /3, 2018

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D06982
MBP Case Number: 2217-0109 B

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II’) §
14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D06982, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage
in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act’’), Health Occ. IT §§ 14-101 ef seg., and other applicable laws. In other
words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my
license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”)
acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B.

I acknowledge that the Board received two complaints regarding my prescribing of
controlled substances to patients in methadone treatment and opened an investigation concerning
my prescribing practices. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my
planned retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. II § 14-404(a) (22) and (40), which require physicians to practice within the
standard of care and keep adequate medical records.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest
any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Joseph H. Miller, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony,
to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in
any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board or Panel B to the same extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance
with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license

will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply
for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not
required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and
conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the
integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I ever file petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with
and have been represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to
practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter
of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File
Joseph H. Miller, M.D.
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Joseph H. Miller, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Ant day of April, 2018 before me, a Notary Public
of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Joseph H. Miller, M.D., and declared and
affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was his
voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

   
     

; MOL™XT mM
Notary Public : é
LICIAL L

 

 
 

 

iC STA

My commission expires: _ My Commission Expizes

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland Board of Physicians, on this ZO
day of April, 2018, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Joseph H. Miller, M.D.’s SURRENDER of
his license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 
