 

Rolando Najera, M.D.

June 24 2017

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Rolando Najera, M.D. License Number: D07463
Case Number: 2017-0384

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D07463, effective
immediately. I understand that upon the surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my
license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging that I have a health
condition that may impact my ability to practice medicine and that the Board initiated an
investigation into the allegations. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these allegations and due to my current health condition. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
and that these allegations support a conclusion that I engaged in unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine (by prescribing medication to myself and family members) in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) and I recognize that there is sufficient
evidence to support a conclusion that I am professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404 (a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
 

Damean Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Rolando Najera, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license as if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order
that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-
101 et seg. (2014), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I will present to
the Board my original Maryland medical license, number D07463, and any renewal
wallet cards. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical
records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by tendering this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree
that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider
any application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date and that I
waive any hearing rights regarding any such application.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. 1 understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend
the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Sfleede 4. Ve 7

_ Rolando Najera, M.,

| C Tey Poa
% hae
Damean Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Rolando Najera, M.D.
Letter of Surrender

Page 3

NOTARY
STATE OF_MD
CITY/COUNTY OF Ceci |

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Dany of DUNC , 2017 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Rolando Najera, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
comnumubgymanent Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.
we

peoenn 9

OcAS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Notary ape

Cou . Ls '
“uunuuw My commission expires: |2.-F- 2C

  

ACCEPTANCE

db i
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this aa iy of Su ne , 2017, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept Rolando Najera, M.D.’s PUBLIC PERMANENT SURRENDER of
his license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

    

Maryland Board of Physici at
