IN THE MATTER OF * ' BEFORE THE

RALPH B. EPSTEIN, M.D. * . MARYLAND STATE
Respondent. * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D08249 * / Case Number: 2218-0269
* * * x * * x * * x * * *
FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
INTRODUCTION .

On May 13, 2019, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged Ralph B. Epstein, M.D., a gynecologist, with unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, under Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). The charges alleged

that Dr. Epstein treated three family members by prescribing medications, including controlled

‘dangerous substances (“CDS”), and by performing medical procedures on them over the course

of several years, After a one-day hearing before an Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) at the
Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”), the ALJ issued a proposed decision, on. January 9,
2020. The ALJ concluded that Dr. Epstein was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine for treating his family members. The ALJ recommended a three-month suspension
and a $25,000 fine.

On January 27, 2020, Dr. Epstein filed written exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed
Decision. On February 3, 2020, the State filed a Motion to Strike Respondent’s Exceptions. The
State argued that Dr. Epstein’s exceptions were largely a first-person narrative addressing his
prescribing and medical care and thus improperly included evidence outside the record, based on
statements that he had not presented as evidence at the OAH hearing. The State argued that Dr.

Epstein, who briefly testified at the hearing, made a conscious decision to not testify at the

 
 

hearing about any substantive matters, and therefore; he should not be allowed to offer the
testimony through the exceptions process.

Dr. Epstein was given the opportunity to respond to the State’s motion, but did not file a

response. Board Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A” or the “Panel”) granted the State’s motion, in

part, citing a Board’s regulation, which states, “[t]he disciplinary panel may not accept additional
evidence through the written exceptions process.” COMAR 10.32.02.05B(1)(e). The Panel
explained that the admission of this new information would not be fair to the Administrative
Prosecutor, who would be unable to cross-examine witnesses to challenge the new information..
On February 14, 2020, Panel A issued an Order Striking Additional Information not in Evidence
from the Exceptions Proceeding. The Panel, however, declined to strike Dr. Epstein’s written
exceptions as a whole, noting that some of the exceptions appropriately contained arguments that
were not based on additional evidence. On April 8, 2020, Panel A heard oral arguments on Dr.
Epstein’s remaining exceptions.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A adopts the ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact.! The ALJ’s Proposed Findings of

Fact (paragraphs 1-43) are incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set:

forth in full.? See attached ALJ Proposed Decision, Exhibit 1. The factual findings were proven
by a preponderance of the evidence, The Panel also adopts the ALJ’s discussion set forth on

pages 10-27 of the ALJ’s proposed decision.

' For purposes of confidentiality, the Board redacted the names, relationships, and, to the extent possible,
the medications and medical conditions of Dr. Epstein’s family members. The family members will be
referred to in this Order as Family Member 1, Family Member 2, and Family Member 3.

> The Board modifies the following dates containing typographical errors in the summary of the evidence
section: Page 2, State #3 is modified to November 14, 2012, State #6 is modified to January 21, 2016,
Page 3, State #12, 13, [4 are modified to October 25, 2018, Resp #2 is modified to October 24, 2019,
The Board modifies the following typographical errors in the discussion section: Page 18, line 7 is
modified to begin “January 2017”.
Epstein’s prescribing CDS to family members while failing to recognize red flags suggesting
abuse or diversion. The State’s expert was also concerned with the safety of Dr. Epstein’s

prescribing two medications that work at cross-purposes to Family Member 2. Dr. Epstein

prescribed medications and otherwise treated family members outside his area of expertise. The.

Panel finds that his specific treatment of family members was disturbing and raises serious
concerns about his medical judgment.

Dr. Epstein argues that the proposed sanction is “absurd” and “an attack on my character.
I have been an upstanding member of this community and the medical community my entire
life.” But, as the State noted in its response to Dr. Epstein’s exceptions, Dr, Epstein has a
lengthy disciplinary history with the Board. Dr. Epstein has been reprimanded three separate
times, suspended for 30 days, continuously on probation from 2007 through 2018, and was
ordered to pay fines totaling $65,000. His violations have concerned patient care, honesty, and
patient safety and are briefly summarized below.

In a 2007 Consent Order, the Board found that Dr. Epstein performed a surgical
procedure, a panniculectomy, that he was not credentialed to perform, failed to document
informed consent, acceptéd payment from the patient knowing that the procedure was rejected by
the insurer for coverage. He also failed to name the procedure when posting the panniculectomy
in the Operating Room or in the discharge notes, failed to dictate the procedure into the operative
note, and allowed the hospital to bill the insurer for the operative time for the non-covered
procedure. The Board found that Dr. Epstein violated the standard of care, failed to keep
adequate documentation, and engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in

violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (22), and (40).

puss pamapnonenntre tps ose
 

In a 2012 Consent Order, the Board found that Dr. Epstein inserted non-FDA approved
Intrauterine Devices (IUDs) that he purchased through the Internet from Canada in fifteen
patients but billed their insurance companies for implanting FDA-approved IUDs. He never
informed those patients that he implanted non-lDA-approved IUDs and recorded in their
medical records that they were FDA-approved IUDs. The Board found that he violated the
standard of care, based on these insertions, based on his failure to provide informed consent
about the placement of the non-FDA approved IUD and his failure to remove the IUD. Dr.
Epstein was also found to have kept inadequate medical records by failing to record adequate
informed consent, failing to document why procedures were necessary, failing to document the
success or failure of the treatment, and failing to document whether non-operative treatments
were discussed or attempted. The Board found Dr. Epstein was guilty of unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine, willfully filed a false report or record in the practice of medicine,
violated the standard of care, willfully submitted false statements to collect fees for which
services were not provided, and failed to keep adequate medical records, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (11), (22), (23), and (40) and found that he violated the 2007 Consent
Order.

In a 2014 Consent Order, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board found that Dr. Epstein again
implanted a non-FDA approved Mirena IUD without the patient’s knowledge or consent, billed
the patient’s insurance company for implanting an FDA-approved NovaSure IUD, and altered
the patient’s medical record by replacing the Mirena IUD sticker with the NovaSure IUD sticker.
Dr. Epstein was also found to have dispensed prescription drugs, specifically, the weight loss
drug phentermine, to patients without a dispensing permit, and violated numerous dispensing

laws and regulations, Panel B found that Dr. Epstein was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the

12

 
 

practice of medicine, willfully failed to file a medical report, and failed to comply with the
dispensing regulations, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (£2), (28), and violated the
2007 Consent Order again, as well as the 2012 Consent Order.

_ Ina 2016 Consent Order, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board found that Dr. Epstein failed
to wear gloves during a pelvic examination and failed to wash his hands prior to pelvic
examinations, which demonstrated poor hand hygiene. Dr. Epstein also inappropriately stored
30 boxes of patient records in his house. Disciplinary Panel B found that Dr. Epstein was guilty
of unprofessional conduct, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), and that he violated the
2014 Consent Order. |

The Panel takes into consideration that one of the aggravating factors when determining a
sanction is that “[p]revious attempts to rehabilitate the offender were unsuccessful.” COMAR
10.32.02.09.B(6)(k). This Final Decision and Order is the fifth time in 13 years that Dr. Epstein
has been disciplined by the Board or by a Board Panel. The Board has given Dr. Epstein
numerous chances to remedy his conduct and demonstrate that he can practice in a professional
and ethical manner. Instead, Dr, Epstein has made clear that the prior discipline was ineffective
in modifying his unprofessional and unethical behavior and that he is either unable or unwilling
to practice medicine in a professional and ethical manner. As such, Panel A revokes Dr.
Epstein’s license and imposes a civil fine of $50,000.

ORDER
It is, by an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Disciplinary Panel A, hereby
ORDERED that the license of Ralph B. Epstein, M.D. to practice medicine in Maryland

is REVOKED; and it is further

 
ORDERED that, within ONE YEAR, Dr, Epstein shall pay a $50,000 civil fine to be
paid by certified check or money order payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians, P.O. Box
37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§

1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

ov [03 [2020 Signature on File

Date Christine A. Farrelly, tive Dirers6f
Maryland State Board o ee

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408(a), Dr. Epstein has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within 30 days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order, The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed, Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure,
If Dr. Epstein files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:

David §, Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

14
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

 
Exhibit 1
_ MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF

PHYSICIANS .
ve

RALPH B. EPSTEIN, M.D.,

BEFORE GERALDINE A. KLAUBER,
AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE

OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

 

" RESPONDENT

LICENSE No.: D08249 . , * QAHNo.: MDH-MBP1-71-19-27407
kk * a a a ' 2 7 4

 

PROPOSED DECISION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
_'- DISCUSSION ,
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LA’
PROPOSED DISPOSITION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE ~

 

. On May 13, 2019, a disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (Board)
issued charges against Ralph B. Epstein, MLD. (Respondent), alleging violations of the State law
governing the practice of medicine. Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. §§.14-101 through 14-508, and
14-601 through 14-607 (2014 & Supp. 2019)! (the Act). Specifically, the Respondent is charged
with violating section 14-404(a)(3)(i) of the Act. The disciplinary panel to which the complaint ‘
was assigned forwarded the charges to the Office of the Attorney General for prosecution, and
another disciplinary panel delegated the matter to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH).
for issuance of Proposed Findings of Fact, Proposed Conclusions of Law and Proposed

Disposition. COMAR 10.32.02.03E (5); COMAR 10.32.02.04B (1).

 

1 The Maryland Medical Practice Act (the Act). _
 

.Lheld a hearing on November 22, 2019 at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101

Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland, Health Occ. §.14-405(a) (Supp. 2019); COMAR

~ 10.32.02.04. Stephen L. Snyder, Esquire, represented the Respondent, who was present. Robert

J. Gilbert, Assistant Attomey General and Administrative Prosecutor, represented the State of ,
“Maryland (State).

Procedute in this cases. governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative

_ Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings Before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the Office of Administrative Hearings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201
through 10-226 (2014 & Supp. 2019); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.
ISSUES
“1. Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(3) of the Medical Practice Act by
treating family members? | |
2. What sanctions, if any, are appropriate?
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

| admitted into evidence the following exhibits offered by the State:

State#1- _ Licensing information, the Respondent
State#2- Consent Order, October 1, 2007
State #3 - Consent Order, November 14, 2102

State #4 - Consent Order; April 9, 2014 .

State #5 - Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation, May 19, 2014
State #6 - Consent Order, January 21, 2106

State #7 - Amendments to Consent Order of J: anuary 21, 201 6, August 16, 2016 :

State #8 - Order Terminating Probation, January 22, 2018 |

2

so agupon eine
State #9 - Complaint, March 7,2018 ©”

State #10-. Disc containing Prescription Drug Monitoring Pro gram (PDMP) report,
Respondent.”

State #1 - Transcript of interview, Respondent, November 15, 2018

 

State #12- Subpoena Duces Tecum, October 25, 2108 to Respondent; medical records
a . : . .

State #13- Subpoena Duces Tecum, October 25, 2108 to Respondent; medical records

State #14- Subpoena Duces Tecum, October 25, 2108 to Respondent; medical records
of| a . .

State #16- Curriculum Vitae of FY January 18, 2019

State #17- Expert report January 18, 2019

State #18 - AMA Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 8.19
“State H9- AMA Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 1.2.1
State #20- Report of Investigation, March 15, 2019
J admitted into evidence the following exhibits offered by the Respondent:
Resp #1 - Curriculum Vitae iii
Resp #2- Expert Report October'24, 2109 ,
I admitted into évidence the following Joint exhibit:
“Jel - Preface to the Opinions in the Code of Medical Ethics
Testimony — . : ; ‘
The, following witnesses testified on behalf of the Board:
Doreen Noppinger, Compliance Manager, Board of Physicians;
a. who was accepted as an expert in gastroenterology, obstetrics and

gynecology.
The Respondent testified on his own behalf and presented testimony fon
.. who was accepted as an expert int obstetrics and gynecology.
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT -

After considering the evidence, I find the following by a preponderance. of the evidence:

1.’ Afall times relevant hereto, Respondent was, and is, licensed to practice medicine

. in Maryland. Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
August 3, 1970. His license is current until September 30, 2020.
2. The Respondent j is board-certified i in obstetrics and gynecolo gy.
Disciplinary history/Background
3. In 2007, the Board issued disciplinary charges ag against the Respondent, The
Respondent resolved the charges by entering into a Consent Order with the Board, dated
October 1, 2007, in which the Board found as a matter of law that the Respondent
violated the Act, under Health Occupation Article section 14-404(a): (3) Is guilty of: Gi)
(unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine); (22) (fails to meet appropriate
standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical
and surgical care); (40) (fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review). .
: 4, The Board reprimanded the Respondent and placed him on probation for two
years, subject to probationary conditions including payment of a $20,000.00 fine and
‘training in medical ethics; and the requirement that he comply with all laws, rules and

regulations governing the practice of medicine.

smntpuno gpg mpgesseees
EXCEPTIONS

Dr. Epstein’s remaining exceptions and oral exceptions fall into four categories, Dr.
Epstein argues that: (1) his exceptions should not have been stricken; (2) his prescribing to
family members was not unethical and therefore, was not unprofessional, (3) his prescribing was
permissible because he was treating patients in emergency circumstances, and (4) the ALJ erred
by rejecting his expert’s witness’s conclusions,

1, Exception regarding Motion to Strike

At the exceptions hearing, Dr. Epstein argued that he was not afforded the opportunity to
defend his actions at the evidentiary hearing because the administrative prosecutor did not
question him about those actions. As an initial matter, Dr. Epstein did not file a written response
to the State’s Motion to Strike and, therefore, has waived any arguments concerning the stricken
exceptions. However, even had Dr, Epstein not waived this issue, his arguments have no merit.
Dr. Epstein briefly testified and, therefore, had the opportunity to explain his actions, He chose
not to testify on those matters at the hearing. He cannot later, months after the evidentiary
hearing, add additional testimony that he could have presented at the evidentiary hearing. Panel
A rejects his exceptions on this issue.

2. Dr. Epstein’s Prescribing to Family Members

In his exceptions, Dr. Epstein challenged the ALJ’s finding that prescribing to family
members constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. Dr. Epstein argues that,
because the laws and statutes do not expressly prohibit prescribing to a family member, no
violation occurred. The State contends that the Board has consistently interpreted unprofessional

conduct in the practice or medicine to include prescribing CDS and providing other medical

treatment for family members.

 
 

. of §12-102 of the Health h ecupston Article.

5. In 2012, the Board issued disciplinary charges against the Respondent. The
Respondenit resolved the charges by entering into a Consent Order with the Board, dated

November 14, 2012, in which the Board found as a matter of law that the Respondent

violated the Act, under Health Occupation Article section 14-404(a) (3) Is guilty of: (ii)

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (23) Willfully submits false
statements to collect fees for which services are not provided, The Board also found that
the Respondent violated the terms of the 2007 Consent Order.

6. The Board reprimanded the Respondent and ordered him to remain on probation
for a minimum period of two years, subject to probationary conditions inchiding payment
of a $20,000.00 fine and training in medical ethics and record keeping, and the
requirement that he comply with all laws, rules and regulations governing the practice of ,
medicine. .

7. In 2013, the Board issued disciplinary charges against the Respondent. The
‘Respondent resolved the charges by entering into a Consent Order with the Board, dated
April 9, 20 14, in which’ the Board found as a matter of law that the Respondent violated
the Act, under section 14-404(a)(2) Fraudulently or deceptively uses a license; GB) Is |

guilty of: (ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine), al 1) Willfully files or

_ makes a false report or record in the practice of medicine; (12) Willfully fails to file or

record any | medical report as s required under jaw; willfully impedes or obstructs the filing

or recording of the teport, or induces another to fail to file or record the report; (17)

\ Makes a willful misrepresentation in treatment; (23) Willfully submits false statements to

collect fees for which services are not provided: C8) F Fails to comply Ww with the provisions

_sosayasagpaaengiseco

cognauone:
8. The Board’s 2014 Consent Order superseded the 2007 and 2012 Consent Orders.

The Board suspended the Respondent’s medical license for thirty days and placed him on
probation for a minimum of three years, subject to probationary conditions including,
‘payment of a $25,000.00 fine and the requirernent that he comply with all laws, tules and
regulations governing the practice of medicine.

9. On May 19, 2014, the Board terminated the Respondent’s thirty day suspension

"and placed him on probation for a minimum of three years and continuing until he

successfully completed the probationary terms and conditions.
10, On August 20, 2015, the Board charged thie Respondent with violating the |
probationary conditions imposed under the Consent Order dated April 14, 2014 and May

19, 2014 Order. The Respondent resolved the charges by entering into a Consent Order

. with the Board, dated January 21, 2016, in which the Board found as a matter of law that.

the Respondent violated the Act, under Health Occupation Article section 14-404(a) (3)
Is guilty of: (i) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine) and the conditions
imposed by the April 14, 2014 Consent Order and the May 19, 2014.

11. The Board reprimanded the Respondent and placed him on probation fora
minimum ofa two-year period, subject to series of probationary conditions, including’

paying a fine of 85, 000.00 and the requirement that he comply with all laws, rules and

_ regulations governing the practice of medicine,

12. On March 7, 2018, an individual filed a complaint against the P

BR ce in Columbia, Maryland regarding the receipt of medical treatment
and préscriptions from unlicensed individuals. The Respondent was one of the health

care providers employed by the clinic and was named in the complaint:

 
13. The Board did not issue any charges against the Respondent for his involvement
with the Center.
14. During the investigation of the complaint, the Board obtained the Respondent’s

prescribing activities for the period of. January 1, 2017 through June 13, 2018 from the

 

PDMP. The PDMP reflected that the Respondent had been prescribing controlled
dangerous substances (CDS) to family members.
Pe |
15, Over the course of five years, the Respondent prescribe to For
the period of January.2017 through June 2018 there were thirty-nine entries in the PDMP
sof prescriptions written by the Respondent coll
16. a: a designated by the Drug Enforcement Agency as a schedule 2 drug?
17. PR is ie of age, has been treated for ma
fF has been prescribed since |i.
18. . In December 20 13, the TE cocuments on the Respondent’s patient
intake form that he takes EE &02 times per day. (Board #12)
19. In March 2017, the -<ported that he feels like the RI wears
off too soon, In response, the Respondent increased is dosage
. - ninety tablets

20. On January 15, 2018, the Respondent prescrib

 

 

 

a. Two weeks later, the Respondent prescribed 90 more tablets of

| | and on February 9, 2018, he prescribed sixty tablets a.

 

eee ere
3 The DEA’s drug scheduled organizes drugs into groups based on risk or abuse or harm. A schedule 2 drug has
high potential for abuse and diversion.
21. ‘In July 2018, the Respondent ‘ool oor I oo pescrines him
Ps After a brief stint 7 the Respondent oon

| ea and returned him tol.
22. ;F filled some of the prescriptions at different pharmacies.

23. The Respondent did not consult wich physician prior to prescribing the

24, | PDMP report pertaining to the Respondent for the period of January 2108 through
June 2018 includes ten entries for prescriptions iii Six. entries

"were i four entries were oo
. i is a schedule 4 —— used for — One of the possible side

26, — schedule 4, typically prescribed to treat

Respondent prescribed three months supplies o with three refills, the

equivalent of a one year supply.
27. The Respondent informed the Board that he prescribed ne

medical records.

28. The Respondent did not prscri il onan

emergent basis.

     

 

 

   

| The

Be
29, In 2001, the Respondent operated twice a He —— |

a. both are elective procedures and are ‘considered significant
procedures. , oc , : .
30. There is nothing i _ medical records to reflect the

Respondent had obtained fi consent before operating.
31. On October 23, 2017, the Respondent prescribe

ee: ee The FDA has stated does not cause

7. and has mandated that homeopathic products containing a.

taken off the market. The medical records do not reflect that the Respondent received

 

 

informed consent ron regarding the FDA’s findings before prescribing her
32. The Respondent vcctorne dl =

33. ‘The Respondent has veel Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of

34, The Respondent provided gynecological care eo including

routine pelvic examinations and the delivery of two children.

a the Respondent to deliver her first child

when her obstetrician, who practiced with the Respondent, was not on call.

= that the Respondent ‘provide her with

gynecological and obstetrical care, which included pelvic examinations, breast

examinations and delivering two children.

oO

 
 

 

physician had prescribed her medication for the condition. °

38. ‘In June 2016, the Respondent prescribe film for

I on 0

occasions, the Respondent prescribed her Hl: Po

40, On April 15, 2017, the Respondent prescribed twenty tablets
41. On May 19, 2016, the Respondent prescribed which
is al ccication.

42. The Respondent prescribed

  

    
    

s medical records do not document any reported

‘

43. Upon notice by the Board of its charges, the Respondent stopped treating his

family members, including not prescribing medications.
DISCUSSION
Legal Background

The Board maintains that the Respondent i is subj ect to discipline for violating the following

provisions of the Maryland Medical Practice Act:

(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the

fe (410). The other prescription

6 The one prescription was written on July 17, 2015 and was
was called in and there was no date on the documentation.
7

  
 

sepa peecnogipieten won
 

disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

~'B) Is euty of:

Gi) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

Health Oce. § “14-404(a)(3)(ii) (Supp. 2019).

Before the Board takes any action under section 14-404(a), the individual against whom
“the action is contemplated is entitled to the opportunity for a hearing before an Administrative
Law Judge (ALJ) at the OAH. Factual findings made by the ALJ shall be supported by a
preponderance of the evidence. Md, Code Ann., Health Occ, § 14-405(b)(2) (20 14).

The State, as the moving party, bears the burden to prove by a preponderance of the
evidence that the Respondent violated the statutory provisions at issue, Md. Code Ann, State
Gov't § 10-217 (2014), Mad. Code Ann., Health Oce. § 14-405(b)(2) (2014); Comm’r of Labor &
Indus. v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 344 Mad. 17, 34 (1996) (citing Bernstein v y, Real Estate Comm! n, .

221 Md, 221, 231 (1959)). As discussed below, I find that the State has met its burden with respect

tothe charges.

While the Act fails to provide any standard for or definition of the phrase “unprofessional
conduct,” the Maryland Court of Appeals defined the term to include conduct that breaches rules or
ethical codes of professional conduct or conduct unbecoming toa member in good standing in the
‘profession. Finucan v. Maryland Bd, of Physicians Quality Assurance, 380 Ma. 577,593, cert.

_ dénied, 543 U.S. 862 (2004). :

ll

 
Arguments of the Parties

The Board alleged that the Respondent was tesponsible for unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine in violation of section 14-404 (a)(3)Gi) of the Health Occupations Article based
on his actions in presoribing CDS and prescription only medications to family members, and for |
providing medical care to those family members.

In support of its case, the State presented testimony —— a:

Board certified in internal medicine and gastroenterology. She was qualified and accepted as an

_ expert in internal medicine, gastroenterology, and professional ethics. HB sevved asa

member of the Maryland Board of Physicians from 1999 until 2003. She continued to practice

_medicine until 2014, at which time she retired. In April 2015 , became a clinical

physician consultant for the Board and currently serves in that capacity. a ««-: as
Board consultant include reviewing the majority of complaints filed with the Board, which she
estimates to be approximately one thousand per year. She also reviews the Licénsee complaints,
subpoenas related records, reviews the standard of care and/or ethical opinions and ultimately
formulates a summary and opinion. BE -orctuiea that the Respondent’s treatment and.
prescribing practices to family members constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine. 2 that in formulating her opinions she considered Board precedent,
AMA ethical opinions, and her knowledge gained from practice and discussions with peers.

The State also presented testimony of Doreen Noppinger, Compliance Manager, Board of

Physicians. Ms. Noppinger set forth the prior disciplinary history of the Respondent to be taken

into consideration when fashioning a sanction,

12

 
 

 

The State argued that while the State considers mitigating and aggravating factors in
recoramending a sanction, in this case there are no mitigating factors but there are aggravating
factors. The State argued the Respondents prescribing of CDS and other prescription
medications to his family was pervasive, particularly in regard a. and therefore mefits a
sanction. The State argued that the most significant aggravating factor is the Respondent’s prior
disciplinary history, which includes multiple acts of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, misrepr esentations as well as violations of the standard of care, As a disciplinary
measure the State seeks a three-month suspension of licensure and a fine of $25, 000.00.

The Respondent did not deny that he prescribed both CDS and prescription only
medications to three family members, nor did he deny providing medical treatment to those
family members. The Respondent argued that his conduct, although perhaps in some-instances
was somewhat inappropriate; did not rise to the level of unprofessional conduct. The :

Respondent argued that ia testimony and opinions should be disregarded because she is

a biased witness who is employed by the Board. The Respondent presented an opposing opinion

ton an expert in the gynecology and obstetrics opined that based

upon his review of the facts, the Respondent's treatment of his family members was not

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, a =: wi

interpretation of the AMA Medical Ethical Opinions as prohibiting physicians from prescribing

medications and treating family members, According yO the Respondent’s actions did -

not constitute unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

13

 
 

Analysis
Prescribing to family members
The Board charged the Respondent with unprofessional conduct in the practice of

medicine in regard to his prescribing practices to family members. The evidence offered by the

Board established that the Respondent prescribed controlled substances hit
a. The evidence also established that the Respondent operated on fll on
two occasions, provided routine gynecological care oo  .. delivered her

two children. For the reasons explained below, I find that the Respondent engaged in

 

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.
na provided a definition of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine as
conduct that does not comport with AMA’s Code of Medical Ethics Opinions or will breach a

standard of medical ethics in a medical community that is in good standing, f

definition is consistent with the Court of Appeals definition stated Finucan, supra.

Ea testified that she is the Clinical Physician Consultant for the Board and reviews .

the maj ority of complaints that come to the Board, She explained that her review of the

Respondent’s case originated from a complaint against Center where

- the Respondent was employed. Her review of the complaint included a review of the

Respondent’s PDMP records for the period of January 1, 2017 through June 13, 2018, the hard
copies of prescriptions written by the Respondent for his family members, and the medical

records iii She also reviewed the AMA Code of Medical

Ethics Opinions, specifically Opinions 8.19 and 2 explained that while she
considered the AMA Code of Medical Ethical Opinions when conducting her review, her

opinions were based largely on her experience, training, and Board precedent..

14

son sngpancapemamenrengapamin see
Unprofessional conduct has been defined as “conduct which breaches the rules or ethical
code of a profession.” Salerian vy. Maryland State Board of Physicians 176 Md. App. 231, 248
(2007) (citing Finucan v Maryland Bd. of Physician Quality Assur., 380 Md. 577, 593 (2004)).
Additionally, unprofessional conduct includes acts that are commonly understood by the
profession to be prohibited. See Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248. The lack of a specific statute or
regulation that precludes treatment of family members does not limit the Panel’s authority or
ability to determine whether Dr. Epstein’s treatment and prescribing to his family members was
unprofessional. The Board’s regulations state that “the disciplinary panels may consider the
Principles of Ethics of the American Medical Association.” COMAR 10.32.02.16. The
American Medical Association (“AMA”) Code of Medical Ethics’ Opinion on Physicians
Treating Family Members (Opinion 8.19) and the AMA’s Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 1.2.1
were admitted into evidence and considered by the State’s expert in reaching her conclusion that
Dr. Epstein’s conduct was unprofessional.

In both Salerian and Finucan the courts approved the use of the AMA Guidelines and an
opinion of the AMA’s Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs, respectively, in determining
whether the conduct at issue was unprofessional. Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 249; Finucan, 380
Md. at 593. In Salerian, the Court of Special Appeals accepted the AMA Guidelines as the
ethical codes of medicine, which may be used to determine whether certain acts constitute
unprofessional conduct. Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 249, In Finucan, the Court of Appeals
concluded that a romantic relationship concurrent with a physician-patient relationship was
unprofessional based on an opinion by the AMA’s Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs.

Finucan, 380 Md. at 594. The Salerian Court relied on the testimony of the State’s expert who

 
There are no federal or Maryland laws, regulations or written policies that preclude ,
physicians from treating immediate family members. The Opinions of the Code of Medical
Ethics are also not laws or rules, but as the Preface states, are a guide for physicians on ethical

behavior. A physician’s deviation from the guidance offered in the AMA Code of Ethics and the

 

Ethical Opinions, however, may support a finding that a physician engaged in unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine.

Opinion 8.19 states:

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their immediate families.
Professional objectivity may be compromised when an immediate family member or the
physician is the patient; the physician’s personal feelings may unduly influence his or her
professional medical judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered.
Physicians may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical history or may fail
to perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Similarly, patients may feel
uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an intimate examination
when the physician is an immediate family member. This discomfort is particularly the
case when the patient is a minor child, and sensitive’ or intimate care should especially be
avoided for such patients. When treating themselves or immediate family members,
physicians may be inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training. If
tensions develop in a physician’s professional relationship with a family member,
perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such difficulties may be carried over
into the family member’s personal relationship with the physician:

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant when
physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family members may be
reluctant to state their preference for another physician or decline a tecommendation for
fear of offending the physician. In particular, minor children will generally not feel free
to refuse care from their parents. Likewise, physicians may feel obligated to provide care
to immediate family members even if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake self-treatment or treatment of
immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no .
other qualified physician available, physicians should not hesitate to treat themselves or
family members until another physician becomes available, In addition, while physicians
should not serve as a primary or regular care provider for immediate family members,
there are situations in which routine care is acceptable for short-term, minor problems.
Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write prescriptions for
controlled substances for themselves or immediate family members.

15
. Opinions 8.19 in conjunction with Opinion 1.2.1 delineate specific concerns that may

" atise when a physician treats family members. The following listed concerns support the AMA’s _

disapproval of physician’s treating family members:
. + Professional objectivity may be compromised;
' * Personal feelings may unduly influence a physician’s professional medical judgment:

» Physicians may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking medical histories or fail to ,
perform intimate parts of physical examinations; .

. Patients may feel uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an
intimate ‘examination; | .

. Physicians may be inclined to try and treat problems beyond their medical expertise.and
training; . ,

+ Negative medical outcomes may be carried over into the personal/family relationship
with the physician;
. Family members may feel reluctant to decline treatment recommended by the

physician;

doing so.
Opinion 1.2.1 states, in part:
Treating oneself or a member of one’s own family poses several challenges for

physicians, including concerns about professional objectivity; patient autonomy and .
informed consent. : :

testified that when she reviewed the Respondent’s case, she considered O inion.
' pe Pp.

8.19, which specifically finds a physician’s prescribing of CDS to.family members inappropriate,

except in cases of emergency. a had particular concern about the Respondent’s

16

+ Physicians may feel obligated to provide care to family even if they feel uncomfortable

stem tS PORE:
 

prescribing practices regarding: Pe ::: diagnosed with es a

teenager and was prescribed to treat the condition. The medical records reflect that the

Respondent’s prescribing TE :--s back to 2013. a :

current fers old and still taking the- medication. The ‘PDMP reflects thirty-nine entries

for the period of January 1, 2017 through June 13, 2018 and during that petiod the Respondent ©

prescribed the medication more than once a month, On March 2, 2017, the Respondent

increased ne dosage iii after cportea to him that he feels as if

inf vex off too soon, In July 2018, the Respondent chongedfil course of

‘treatment to | os a short time and then returned to prescribing [ia

| | explained that the concern of a physician’s lack of objectivity when prescribing

CDS to family members occurred in the Respondent’s prescribing practices wit The

Respondent prescribed of over an extended period of time. As with all CDS,
ma carries with it the risk of diversion or abuse. BE sities that the Respondent
ignored red flags associated vith RE osc of the CDS. Speciically MMM Sling of
prescriptions at different pharmacies, his need for increased dosages, and his statement that he
felt as i... wearing off too soon, should have been red flags of possible abuse or
diversion. The Respondent, however, ignored these signs and continued to prescribe the drug
without any apparent reco gnition of potential problems. .
| | noted the additional concern with a physician prescribing CDS toa family

raember is the risk that a-physician may assume the treatment of a condition that is outside of
his/her area of expertise, This was the case with the Respondent’s treatment | The

Respondent’s expertise is gynecology and obstetrics ne is yO

|| which is in the realm of expertise of a psychologist, psychiatrist, or neurologist. The °

17

 
 

Respondent’s continued treatment of, altering his doses a and at one point

taking him oT... prescribing) in its stead, was clearly treatment outside of
the Respondent’s area of expertise. As | noted, it would have been j in ne

a best interest to have been treated by a psychiatrist or practitioner who had expertise in the
treatment ofl and could better adjust medications and monitor his condition.
In addition to prescribing cos 10ffl the PDMP for the eighteen-month period of

January 2108 through June 2018 includes ten-entries for CDS prescribed by the Respondent for

a. Six entries were for and four entries were a The Respondent

 

prescribed three months supplies of | | with three refills, the equivalent of approximately

a one year supply. In his interview with the Board, the Respondent stated that he had prescribed

The Respondent’s prescribing i is in contravention of the guidance

offered by the Ethical Opinions and Board precedent regarding the prescribing of CDS to family

 

members. Other than the general concern of the dangerous nature of CDS Zz pointed out

other specific concerns with the Respondent’ s prescribing practices pertaining S| The

“Respondent testified before the Board that he 0 treat
a. yet there is no documentation in the medical records that she had this -

condition. BE sites iho was an unusual condition for which to prescribe
Additionally, the Respondent prescribed EE vbich catries with it a

reason for prescribi the is accurate, the Respondent provided overlapping .
ng ‘p Pp pping

, prescriptions iii was possibly causing symptoms that of had been

prescribed to prevent,

‘18

i
‘
a
5

 
 

The medical records further reflect that on 1 October 23, 2017, the Respondent voll

a. which is used for The FDA has stated fldoes not cause fl
Be has mandated that homeopathic products containing) for + - taken off of

the market. ma: that the issue of the Respondent’s prescribing yO is

that the medical records do not reflect that the Respondent provided i wits informed

 

 

consent regarding the FDA’s findings.

The Respondent also prescribed CDS i. The PDMP for the period
previously referenced reflects that the Respondent prescribed [lA
: ; on June 24, 2017, nf: May 18, 2018. BE pointes out that the Respondent’s

He Although there was no overlap in the prescribing
of medication for PSY as previously noted can cause
P| P| stated that although it was not an
absolute contraindication to prescribe purposes in the setting of
a. the Respondent should have discussed vit i possible issues

with ‘nc and there is nothing i in the record to indicate that the Respondent obtained

 

informed consent prior to prescribing the medication.

’ In addition Ei the Respondent a

poe three times in 2011, P| pointed out that although it is not
unusual for a gynecologist to a | for a Paticn medical records

did not document | initiation of the drug by another physician.

The Respondent also prescribed several prescription-only drugs cm including
igs I 2 esipions 2 II inten
Po on short term basis. While not as concerning as the

io

 
prescribed CDS, his prescribing drugs iii is activity clearly frowned
upon by the Ethics Opinions. His actions were part of the Respondent’s overall pattern of
ignoring the guidance offered by the AMA Ethical Opinions.

One of the concerns of a physician treating or prescribing medication to a family member
is that the physician's treatment will be too casual and not follow the same standards as those
adhered to for unrelated patients. It appears that this is precisely what occurred in the

Respondents treatment of his family. The Respondents history taking, obtaining informed

consent, and record keeping for family members was not in line with the medical community’s

standards.

In my consideration of the weight to be eve MI esi, Ihave rejected the
Respondent’s argument chat biased by virtue of her employment with:-the Board
and, therefore, her testimony should be discarded. Although I recognize that a
Board employee, because her explanations for the basis of her opinions were rational and
supported by the facts and precedent, I found her testimony worthy of consideration.

On the other hand, regarding the issue of the Respondent's ptactice of prescribing CDS to
his family, the Respondent’s expert’s opinion that the Respondent’s actions did not constitute

unprofessional conduct was not based on accurate facts. First did not have all the

- essential facts before him as he admitted that he did not review the exhibits that were admitted

into evidence ptior to rendering his opinion. Additionally, BE «ince for finding that
the Respondent’s prescribing of CDS cia not rise to the level of unprofessional
conduct was based on the premises that another physician initially prescribed and the
Respondent was not the primary physician overseeing the care fF: the condition.

Arhoughhfilil intake form identified Dr. i: his physician, the form also noted there .

20

 
 

was no treating physician. The Respondent’s medical records made no reference to another

. physician | care. a that he understood nol

treatment for [i was overseen by another physician from what he had been told by the
Respondent’s attorney. . ,

Many of the concerns about prescribing CDS and prescription-only drugs to family
members enumerated in the relevant Medical Opinions were manifest in the Respondent’s
prescribing to his family members, and for the reasons set forth iim testimony, I find
that the evidence supports a finding that the Respondent’s actions in this regatd constituted
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

In addition to finding the Respondent’s prescribing of CDS to family members
unprofessional conduct, the Board also found the Respondent’s rendering of medical care'to his

family members unprofessional. The Respondent provided routine gynecological care to | | ,

Pe and delivered her two children, It is undisputed th cl

had no issues o concerns with RE ::<2:i0¢ her or delivering hei children. It

 
 

was who approached the Respondent and requested that he deliver her first
child when her obstetrician was not on call the day of her delivery.
mam that Ethical Opinion and Board precedent led her to conclude the

Respondent’ conduct of providing gynecological and obstetric care ie :.:

unprofessional. referenced Opinion 1.2.1 which provides, in relevant part: ”
; P

 

In general, physicians should not treat themselves or members of their own.
families. However, it may be acceptable to do so in limited circumstances:

(a) In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no other qualified —
physician available. In such situations, physicians should not hesitate to treat
themselves or family members until another physician becomes available.

(b) For short term, minor problems.

21

 
 

When treating self or family members, physicians have further responsibility to:

(c) Document treatment or care provided and convey relevant information to the
patients primary care physician.

(d) Recognize that if tensions develop i in the professional relationship with a
family member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such
difficulties may be carried over into the family member’s personal
relationship with the physician,

(e) Avoid providing sensitive or intimate care especially for a minor patient who
is uncomfortable being treated by a family member.

(8 Reco pnize the family members may be reluctant to ‘state their preference for
another physician or decline a recommendation for fear of offending the
physician, :

According i: the Medical Opinions, which specifically state that a physician
should avoid providing sensitive or intimate care toa family member, also support a finding of
unprofessional conduct. She further noted that it isthe well-reco enized opinion of the medical -
community that it is “inappropriate and unéthical” for a physician to treat family members and
Board precedent also deems the treatment as unprofessional conduct.

In response to the State’ $ case, the Respondent argued that the Ethical Opinions do not:

suipport the charges against the Respondent because the Opinions do not specifically use the

‘terms unethical or unprofessional. The Respondent also pointed to the Preface to the Code of

Medical Ethics which states that the words must, should and may, which appear throughout the
Opinions are used in their common understandings to distinguish different levels of ethical
obligation. According to the Respondent, because Opinion 8.19 states that physicians “generally

should riot treat themselves or members of their immediate families,” and does not state “must?

not treat family members, the physician is afforded latitude in this area. (Joint Ex. 1)

22

 
|| who is the Chair of the Obstetrician/Gynecolo gy Department at Mercy Medical
Center, testified that in his opinion the Respondent’s treatment UC was not
unprofessional and was within the standard of care. He interpreted the Opinion’s reference to the
inappropriateness of intimate care to pertain to minors only. He also testified that the AMA . °
Ethical Opinions are purely a guide and nota strict code and give latitude to physicians in

making their own decisions regarding patient care. ee

that she was totally complicit in the Respondent treating her and delivering her children. i
ma placed emphasis on this fact and noted nn iii i _ _ _ 7 had no issues
or feservations with the Respondent providing her routine gynecological care or delivering her

children. He testified that he is familiar with numerous physicians in the field who have

| | assertion that the Respondent provided intimate care ce his

reasoning being that pelvic exams are routine examinations for gynecologists and obstetricians.
He described a vaginal exam as a tool for the doctor - similar to a stethoscope as a tool for a
cardiologist.

The fact that two highly qualified and experienced physicians have starkly different
opinions on ‘the appropriateness of the Respondent’s treatment a is proof of
the complexity of the issue,

I did not ind opinion that pelvic exams are not intimate care persuasive.
Gynecological care address a woman’s most intimate body parts and because gynecologists and
obstetricians examine vaginas on a routine bases does not make the examinations any less

intimate to a female patient. 1 would imagine that most, if not all, women consider the birth ofa

child one of the most intimate experiences in their lives. While I agree that the relevant Ethics

 
 

Opinion regarding intimate care does not use the words “must not,” the Opinion does not use the
words may or should either. The Opinion, however, states unequivocally that a physician has
responsibility to avoid providing intimate care to family members. The responsibility is not

limited to children, as suggested by the Respondent's interpretation of the Opinion, but adds

emphasis to this responsibility in the case of a minor patient.

Thave considered A consent and recognize the importance of a

women’s right to choose a physician who will provide her with intimate care and deliver her
children. I also recognize that a patient may have a myriad of reasons, including convenience,
religion, and family ties for finding gynecological care by a family member not only acceptable
but desirable, A physician, however, is charged with ethical and professional obligations that
may not be apparent to the family member seeking his/her services and it is the physician’s
responsibility to uphold these standards which trump a family membet’s wishes,

The same concerns expressed by | | regarding a physician prescribing drugs to
family members exist in a physician’s hands-on treatment of a family member. The casualness
of the treatment, compromised objectivity, personal feelings influencing professional judgment,
and the reluctance of a patient to decline specific treatment are all legitimate concerns that may
compromise the patient’ s care. ee «.:: fortunate that her
pregnancies and deliveries were without complications, but.one can imagine the possible legal,
emotional and medical repercussions that would befall a physician and his relative if the °
pregnancy and delivery involved complications that threatened the health of the baby and/or the

mother. Would the physician’s objectivity remain intact allowing him to make medically sound

decisions? Would he be able to exercise appropriate medical judgment under the duress of °

treating family? These are reasonable questions and highlight the Board’s logic in deeming the

24

 
 

explained that Dr. Salerian’s conduct violated the AMA’s ethical standards. Salerian, 176 Md.
App. at 249,

Here, Panel A relies on the testimony of the State’s expert, who explained that it was
inappropriate and unethical for Dr. Epstein to treat and prescribe medications, including CDS, to
three family members. The State’s expert based her opinion on her experience, training, the
AMA Medical Ethics Opinions 8,19 and 1.2.1, the commonly understood opinion of the medical
community, and prior Board precedent. Panel A places great weight on the State’s expert’s
testimony and on the two referenced ethics opinions.

Ethics Opinion 8.19 states “[p]hysicians generally should not treat... members of their
immediate family.” The opinion discussed how “[p]rofessional objectivity may be compromised
when an immediate family member . . . is the patient; the physician’s personal feelings may
unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment, thereby interfering with the care
being delivered.” The ethics opinion states that “[p]hysicians may fail to probe sensitive areas
when taking the medical history,” and that, “[sJimilarly, patients may feel uncomfortable
disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an intimate examination.” Particularly relevant
here, “physicians may be inclined to treat problems beyond their expertise or training.” Finally,
the opinion states, “fe]xcept in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write
prescriptions for controlled dangerous substances for .. . immediate family members.”

The Panel adopts the ALJ’s analysis regarding Dr. Epstein’s unprofessional conduct, The
Panel agrees that the concerns associated with treating a family member as described by AMA
Ethics Opinion 8,19 and Opinion 1.2.1 are present in this case.

For Family Member 1, Dr. Epstein prescribed a Schedule II CDS with significant side

effects thirty-nine times over a period of eighteen months, Dr. Epstein ignored significant red

sop ageteupennepupaewns:
Respondent’s treatment PEE «2 :02ssi0na. The Board is ultimately charged

with the onerous duty of assuring quality health care in Maryland by protécting the public from

. incompetent, unprofessional and poorly trained doctors. The Board’s precedent in finding that a

physician’s treatment of family members constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of

medicine should be granted deference,

In addition to providing ir intimate care ot the Respondent operated

described the surgeries as significant elective surgeries to i

 

P| The same reasons articulated for finding the Respondent’s treatment of

BE» 2:0Fessionai conduct apply to his treatment of| 7.

Sanctions

 

Having found the State proved the Respondent violated the Maryland Medical Practice
Act with respect to his treatment of three family members, I now tum to the question of what
sanction or fine, if any, is appropriate. The minimum sanction for immoral or unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, that is not sexual in nature, is a reprimand and the maxcinaum
is revocation. The maximum fine is $50,000.00 and the minimum fine is $5,000.00. COMAR
10. 32.02.10B(3)(c).
The guiding regulation in this matter, found at COMAR 10,32.02.09B, provides in
pertinent part as follows:
B. Aggravating and Mitigating Factors,

(1) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each case, and to the extent
that the facts and circumstances apply, the-disciplinary panel may consider the
aggravating and mitigating factors set out in §B(5) and (6) of this regulation
and may in its discretion determine, based on those factors, that an exception
should be made and that the sanction in a particular case should fall outside the
range of sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

25

 
(5) Mitigating factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) The absence of a prior disciplinary record;

(b) The offender self-reported the incident; :

(c) The offender voluntarily admitted the misconduct, made full disclosure to -
the disciplinary panel and was cooperative during the disciplinary panel
proceedings; .

(d) The offender implemented remedial measures to correct or mitigate the
harm arising from the misconduct;

(e) The offender made good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify the
consequences of the misconduct; . ,

( The offender has been rehabilitated or exhibits rehabilitative potential;
(g) The misconduct was not premeditated; / :

(h) There was no potential harm to patients or the public-or other adverse
impact; or . se : . :

(i) The incident was isolated and is not likely to recur.

spent:

(6) Aggravating factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) The offender has a previous criminal or administrative disciplinary history;
(b) The offense was committed deliberately or with gross negligence or
recklessness; .

(c) The offense had the potential for, or actually did cause patient harm:

(d) The offense was part of a pattern of detrimental conduct;

(e) The offender committed a combination of factually discrete offenses
_adjudicated in a single action; ‘

(f) The offender pursued his or her financial gain over the patient’s welfare;
(g) The patient was especially vulnerable; .

(h) The offender attempted to hide the error or misconduct from patients or
others; ,
(i) The offender concealed, falsified or destroyed evidence, or presented false
testimony or evidence; -

Gj) The offender did not cooperate with the investi gation; or

(Kk) Previous attempts to rehabilitate the offender were unsuccessful, .

Ihave considered the mitigating factors in this case to be that the Respondent acted with

_ only good intentions in treating his family members and no harm resulted from his treatment. I

~ have also noted that his unprofessional conduct was limited to treatment iii

‘and his actions in no-way impacted his general practice or the public, It also reflects favorably

26
upon the Respondent that upon notice of the charges, he immediately ceased treatment of his
family in any capacity. -
The aggravating circumstances in this case are the facts that the Respondent’s treatment

of some of his family members continued over an extended period of time, and the Respondent’s

. extensive history with the Board. As the State pointed out, the Respondent has had previous

char: ges lodged against him'by the Board that included misrepresentations, unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, and violations of the standard of care, As a result of the _

previous violations, the Respondent was on ptobation from 2007 to 2018 and has been required

to take various courses in ethics and record keeping. In addition, the Respondent has received

fines totaling $65,000.00.

In addition to these aggravating circumstances, Thave considered the Respondent’s

testimony at the hearing that the treatment of his family may have been “inappropriate” or “ill-

advised” but was not unprofessional or in violation of the Code of Ethics. Based on his extended ,

disciplinary history and his failure to acknowledge that his behavior was in contravention of the

code of ethics and unprofessional reflects a lack of insight as to his professional and moral

obligations as provided for in the Code of Ethic, Therefore, J find the State’s proposed sanction
consisting of a three-month suspension and a $25,000.00 fine is appropriate.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of law

that the Respondent did violate the Maryland Medical Practice Act. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.

§ 14-404(a)(3)Gi) (Supp. 2019). As aresult, I conclude that the Respondent is subject to

disciplinary sanctions for the cited violations. Id; COMAR 10.32.02.09A-B.

27

nconspassee mrenpenie enti
PROPOSED DISPOSITION

 

I PROPOSE that charges filed by the Maryland State Board of Physicians against the
Respondent on May 13, 2019 be UPHELD; and
I PROPOSE that the Respondent be sanctioned by a three-month suspension and

$25,000.00 fine.

January 9, 2020 . _ Pratt tel
Date Decision Issued Geraldine A. Klauber
: Administrative Law Judge

 

GAK/sw
#183424

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

 

Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may file written exceptions with
the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the captioned
case to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), and request a hearing on the exceptions,
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-216(a) (2014); COMAR 10.32.02.05. Exceptions must be °
filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order. COMAR
10.32.02.05B(1), The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary
Panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Attn:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, ‘

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attommey, and the other party -

will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file‘a written response addressed as

above. Id. The disciplinary panel will issue a final order following the exceptions hearing or
other formal panel proceedings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-216, 10-221 (2014);
COMAR 10.32.02.05C. The OAH is not a party to any review process. ‘

. 28

 
Copies Mailed To:

Ralph B. Epstein, MD

Stephen L. Snyder, Esquire

Snyder & Snyder ,

1829 Reisterstown Road, Suite 100
Baltimore, MD 21 208

Robert Gilbert, Assistant ‘Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Compliance Administration

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

- Baltimore, MD 21215

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer
Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Nicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel
Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division

- Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201

29

 
:

 

 

flags, such as Family Member 1 requiring escalating doses, filling prescriptions. at different
pharmacies, and Family Member 1’s statement that the Schedule II cbs was wearing off too
soon. Moreover, Family Member 1’s medical condition was not within Dr. Epstein’s expertise
and training as a gynecologist. Dr, Epstein’s compromised professional objectivity likely
contributed to his failure to heed the red flags indicating possible drug abuse or diversion?

Finally, the Ethics Opinion 8.19 explicitly states that, except in emergencies, it is not appropriate

_ for a physician to prescribe CDS to family members. Dr. Epstein’s prescribing CDS to Patient 1

over the course of several years does not qualify as an emergency.

For Family Member 2, Dr. Epstein prescribed two different Schedule TV CDS for a total
of ten CDS prescriptions and several other non-CDS prescription drugs for medical conditions
that were, again, outside his expertise. As will be explained further in the next section, the CDS
was not prescribed in an emergency. The ALJ further found, and the Panel adopts the finding
that Dr. Epstein did not maintain sufficient medical records nor did he document the patient’s
consent, which should have included informing the patient that the medication was found by the
Federal Drug Administration to be ineffective for the condition which it was prescribed. He also
operated on Family Member 2, performing significant elective surgeries. These elective
surgeries were not performed in an emergency circumstance.

For Family Member 3, Dr. Epstein prescribed two different types of CDS, on one

occasion for each drug, and did not document that he provided informed consent prior to.

prescribing a CDS that has a potential side effect. Dr. Epstein also prescribed several other

> Dr, Epstein further argues that his prescribing of this medication was not overprescribing. Dr, Epstein
was not charged with a standard of care violation, nor does the Panel conclude that he was guilty of a
standard of-care violation for overprescribing. The Board does not find that Dr. Epstein engaged in
overprescribing.

 
medications for Family Member 3, including at least one for which he did not document the
condition that he was treating.

In addition, Dr, Epstein performed intimate examinations on Family Member 3, and he
delivered her children, The ALJ considered the testimony of the State’s expert and Dr. Epstein’s
expert and adopted the State’s expert’s reasoning. The ALJ explained that the “casualness of the
treatment, compromised objectivity, personal feelings influencing professional judgment, and the
reluctance of a patient to decline specific treatment are all legitimate concerns that may
compromise the patient’s care.” Panel A adopts the ALJ’s conclusion and reasoning,

The ALJ further found that for his treatment of his family members, Dr. Epstein did not
follow the same practices and procedures as he did with his patients who were not in his family.
Dr. Epstein’s history taking, informed consent, and record keeping were not consistent with
medical community standards. In sum, Panel A finds that Dr. Epstein’s medical treatment of
family members was unethical and unprofessional. His exceptions are rejected.

3, Emergency Situations

The AMA Code of Ethics Opinion 8.19 and Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 1.2.1 both -
contain exceptions for emergencies. Opinion 8.19 states, “In emergency settings or isolated
settings where there is no other qualified physician available, physicians should not hesitate to
treat . . . family members until another physician becomes available.” Additionally, “there are
situations in which routine care is acceptable for short-term, minor problems.” Opiiion 1.2.1 has
nearly identical language.

Dr, Epstein argued that he prescribed CDS to Family Member 2 on an emergency basis.
At the exceptions hearing, Dr. Epstein further argued that his prescribing of a Schedule II CDS to

Family Member 1 was an emergency because Family Member 1 had moved out of state and that

 
 

his prescriptions for Family Members 2 and 3 were merely short-term refills and, therefore, fell
within the exception described in Ethics Opinion 8.19. Dr. Epstein’s contentions are belied by
the type of medications he prescribed, the duration of the prescribing, and the conditions treated. .

Dr. Epstein prescribed a thirty-day supply of a Schedule II CDS with a high diversion and
abuse potential to Family Member 1 on thirty-nine separate occasions during an eighteen-month
period, which amounts to approximately a new prescription every two wecks, While the Board
subpoenaed 18-months of prescriptions, Dr, Epstein‘s medical records indicate that Dr. Epstein
prescribed Family Member 1 this Schedule JI CDS for approximately five years. The CDS he
prescribed is generally not prescribed by gynecologists and the condition he was treating was not
within the practice of gynecology, Nor did Dr, Epstein merely provide refills of prescriptions
initiated by other providers. Rather, Dr. Epstein changed the medication from one Schedule IT
CDS to another. Then he went back to the first CDS but increased the dosage. In any case, the:
prescribing went on for a period of years. These prescriptions were not written on an emergency
basis, they were not isolated, and they were not used to treat a “short-term, minor problem.”

Dr. Epstein prescribed Family Member 2 a three-month supply of a Schedule IV CDS
with three refills,’ A year’s worth of medication is not prescribed for an emergency situation.
Dr. Epstein asserts that, for a daily prescription of this drug, if'a patient is out of medication and
her prescribing physician is unavailable, it is an emergency and providing refills was not a
violation of the code of ethics.

The evidence, however, does not indicate that’ Family Member 2’s physician was

unavailable. The Panel agrees with the State’s expert that providing a one-year supply of a

‘ Dr. Epstein claims that he did not need to document Family Member 2’s condition for this medication

because it was décumented in the family member’s specialist’s medical records. Panel A disagrees, Dr.

Epstein was prescribing this CDS for the family member’s condition, therefore, the medical condition
’ should have been in the Dr, Epstein's medical records for that family member.

 
medication indicates that there was no emergency or short-term issue. Many of the prescription
non-CDS medications were prescribed to Family Member 2 and Family Member 3 on a repeated
basis and, therefore, were also not limited to emergency circumstances.” The Panel adopts the
reasoning in the ALJ’s proposed order and concludes that Dr. Epstein’s prescriptions were not
prescribed in an emergency nor do they fall under any exception discussed in AMA Ethics
Opinion 8.19 or 1.2.1.

4. Dr. Epstein’s Expert

Dr. Epstein argues that the Pane! should adopt his expert’s conclusion based on his
expert’s qualifications as the Practicing Chairman of the Department of OB/GYN at Hospital A.
The ALJ, however, found Dr. Epstein’s expert’s testimony unpersuasive for several reasons, For

his testimony related to Family Member 1, Dr. Epstein’s expert admitted that he did not review

the exhibits, and the Panel agrees with the ALJ that he, therefore, did not know all of the

essential facts. Also, several of Dr. Epstein’s expert’s conclusions were based on information
that was outside the record, For example, Dr. Epstein's expert based his opinion on information
the expert received from Dr. Epstein’s counsel that was not substantiated by evidence in the

record.
Dr. Epstein also argues, based on his expert’s testimony, that delivering family members’

babies is not unprofessional. The ALJ considered the testimony of Dr. Epstein’s expert and the

* In exception paragraph 10, Dr. Epstein challenges the ALJ’s finding that the FDA has found that the use
of a medication does not result in a certain outcome, His exception claims that, in fact, the medication
does result in that outcome. Panel A finds no error in the ALJ’s statements regarding the medication.

In each exception in paragraph 13 and 14, Dr. Epstein claims that certain medications were used
for a particular treatment. However, the ALI acknowledged that the medication could be used for the
treatment in each case, and, therefore, it is not clear what is Dr, Epstein’s objection. The ALJ describes
the exact treatment that is listed in Dr. Epstein’s exception in footnote 7 and paragraph 41, respectively.
Dr. Epstein’s exceptions are denied.

 
State’s expert and found the State’s expert more persuasive. The ALJ explained that Ethics
Opinions 8.19-and 1.2.1 specifically warn about intimate examinations and intimate care and
concluded that gynecological examinations performed on Family Member 3 and the delivery of
her children should have been avoided. The Panel agrees. The ALJ correctly noted concerns

about objectivity and the added emotional burdens of treating family members, As such, the

ALJ upheld the finding of unprofessional conduct based, in part, on Dr. Epstein’s treatment of

Family Member 3. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s well-reasoned analysis.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A concludes that Dr. Epstein is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of ©
medicine, in violation of § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article, for providing
medical treatment to his family members, as described above.

SANCTION

The ALJ proposed a sanction of a three-month suspension-and a $25,000 fine. The ALJ
based the proposed sanction on Dr. Epstein’s lengthy disciplinary history and his failure to
understand that his behavior violated basic and fundamental professional and ethical principles.
The ALJ also reasoned that Dr. Epstein’s actions reflected a lack of insight as to his professional
and moral obligations. The Pane! adopts the ALJ’s analysis but does not accept the ALJ’s
proposed sanction.

The current violation, prescribing CDS and treating family members is a significant
violation that indicates a pattern of conduct. Dr. Epstein did not treat family members for brief
periods of time. Rather, his lengthy course of treatment continued over a period of years through
2018 - five years for Family Member 1, beginning in 2001 for Family Member 2, and beginning

in 2008 for Family Member 3. The State’s expert expressed serious concerns about Dr.

 
