Glenn Legler, Sr., M.D.

Digg 08D
May 2019

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Glenn Legler, Sr., M.D. License Number: D09044
Case Number: 2219-0105 A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Occ.”) §14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to
PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D09044, effective immediately. I understand that upon
surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined
in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT, and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes
a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint from a Corporal in the
Sheriff's Office of St. Mary’s County regarding a report from a pharmacist in St.
Mary’s County. The pharmacist had received a prescription that I wrote in Bethesda,
Montgomery County for a Controlled Dangerous Substance, and thought it might
be fraudulent. The Corporal filed a complaint with the Board after a conversation
with me about the prescription that raised concerns about my health. The Board’s
investigation into the allegations raised additional concerns that I may have health
issues which are affecting my ability to practice medicine safely. On April 10, 2019,
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Glenn Legler, Sr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Panel A voted to summarily suspend my license and to provide me with an
opportunity to show cause why the suspension should not be continued. A copy of
the Order for Summary suspension is attached.

Subsequent to the issuance of the Order of Summary Suspension, I decided
to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further prosecution of these allegations. I wish to make it clear that I have
voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Permanent Letter of
Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned allegations and charges under
the Act. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I recognize that for all purposes
relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and
that these allegations support a conclusion that I am not able to practice medicine
safely and that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine).

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any order of summary suspension and any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing
at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released
or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health-General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other
words, I agree that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in
part or in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I
concerns regarding the effect of his physical mobility limitation on his ability to safely
and competently practice medicine’

11. On March 12, 2019, Board staff called Respondent to discuss his voicemail.
Respondent’s statements raised significant concerns regarding his fitness to practice
medicine.*

IV. Subsequent Investigation of Respondent

12. On Tuesday March 19, 2019, Respondent was interviewed, under oath by
Board staff. The interview took place in the lower level of Respondent’s home, which is
where Respondent sees patients. Board staff waited outside for over 30 minutes for the
Respondent to come to the door and noted that the Respondent used’a walker to ambulate
and is unable to walk unassisted. Board staff noted that the “patient area” is extremely
disorganized; cluttered with papers and personal belongings, including two empty animal
cages.” During the interview, the Respondent often paused quite long between answers
and at times provided unsolicited information.

13. On March 19, 2019, Board staff also served Respondent in-person with a
copy of the subpoena for appointment logs previously issued on March 6, 2019 and
requested immediate production of the appointment logs.

14. Board staff requested to see Respondent’s computer room. Respondent

was physically unable to accompany Board staff. Board staff entered the computer room,

7 See Transcript of voice message of March 11, 2019 and Memo to File, March 12, 2019. Respondent has
been provided with a copy of these non-public documents.
8 See Memo to File, March 13, 2019. Respondent has been provided with a copy of this non-pubic

document.
° See Memo of Site Visit, March 19, 2019. Respondent has been provided a copy of this non-public

document.
located at the end of a long hallway on the lower level and noted the room was extremely

cluttered with mounds of paper. There was also an unlocked box of prescription pads and

a bag of empty prescription bottles with labels on them. Respondent indicated that he

stores his patient medical records in a “bedroom” upstairs on the main level and allowed

Board staff to go upstairs to retrieve the subpoenaed medical records. Board staff noted

the room was cluttered and had a strong smell of urine.

15. During the interview, Respondent stated the following:

a

Respondent used to see patients in the “study room” where his
computer is located, but no longer does because it is “quite
crowded.” He now sees patients in a room which is accessed
directly through a sliding glass door at the rear of the home;

Patients are referred to him by other physicians and by other
patients;

Patients contact him on his home telephone;

Respondent sees two to nine patients a day, in the afternoon on
Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays;

More than 50% of his patients are on Suboxone. Respondent sees
the Suboxone patients monthly;

Approximately 25 or 30 of his patients are from out-of-state,

Respondent charges between $100 to $350 per visit, depending on
the duration. He does not participate in any insurance program; and
he only accepts cash payments;

Respondent monitors the PDMP. approximately every six months;
although sometimes he does not do so until after the patient has left
because the computer is in another room;

 

'© The voice message does not indicate that the person has reached a medical office.

8
Respondent keeps his prescription pad in his chair in the space
between the cushion and the arm;

Respondent denied being intoxicated when he called the sheriff at
11:00 p.m.. He had “no sedative drugs and no alcohol.” . He was
hoarse and halting in his speech, a condition which he has had off
and on since the fall;

Respondent assumed that the pharmacist was concerned about the
patient’s use of Alprazolam and Buprenorphine; but instead the
concern was about a prescription for amphetamine mixed salts.
Respondent does not know “what the problem was” with his
prescription. Respondent thinks the concern may have been because
he handwrote his home office address on the top of the pad;

Respondent acknowledged that Family Member A is his patient and
that he has been treating Family Member A since the beginning of
2017, and has prescribed CDS medications for Family Member A;

Respondent maintained a medical record on Family Member A on
his computer,'! but it has “disappeared;”

Respondent acknowledged that he is prescribing CDS medications
for himself;

When asked if he plans to continue to prescribe to himself he said,
“what I was planning to do was make an appointment with the
internist/cardiologist and let him take over the prescribing...but I
didn’t get that done yet;” and

Respondent acknowledged that when he spoke with Board staff on
the telephone he could not concentrate because of the pain in his
foot.

On March 19, 2019, during the site visit and interview, Respondent

submitted medical records of eleven patients. Respondent noted that one of the

individuals was no longer his patient.” The Board also requested the medical records of

'\ The individual who assists with filing has informed Respondent that his computer “is dying.”
"2 Respondent did not explain why did not maintain his record of treatment of this “inactive” patient.

9
Respondent and Family Member A; however, Respondent informed Board staff that he
did not have records on himself or Family Member A.
V. Referrals for Examination of Respondent

17. On March 20, 2019, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-402(a),
Board staff sent correspondence to Respondent by electronic mail and overnight delivery,
directing him to appear on Tuesday, March 26, 2019 at 1:00 p.m. at the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) for an intake evaluation and for the
purpose of scheduling a follow-up examination. Respondent was advised that his
unreasonable failure or refusal to submit to an examination is prima facie evidence of a
licensed medical practitioner’s inability to practice medicine."

18. Respondent sent an email to Board staff stating he is unable to attend
because of “safety concerns due to difficulty ambulating.” He also requested that the
appointment be rescheduled for a Tuesday or Thursday afternoon. Respondent did not
appear for the scheduled evaluation.

19. On March 26, 2019, Board staff sent correspondence to Respondent by
electronic mail and overnight delivery, directing him to appear on Thursday, April 4,
2019, at 1:00 p.m. at the MPRP for an intake evaluation and for the purpose of
scheduling a follow-up examination. Respondent was advised that his unreasonable

failure or refusal to submit to an examination is prima facie evidence of a licensed

medical practitioner’s inability to practice medicine.

 

'3 Health Occ. § 14-402(c) states: The unreasonable failure or refusal of the licensed . . . individual to
submit to an examination is prima facie evidence of the licensed . . . individual’s’ inability to practice
medicine or the respective discipline competently, unless the Board finds that the failure or refusal was
beyond the control of the licensed . . individual.

10
20. On April 3, 2018, at 6:25 p.m., Respondent left a telephone message with
Board staff, stating he requires a full-time assistant, due to a recent fall and that he was
unable to locate transportation. Respondent did not appear for the second scheduled
evaluation.

21. On April 5, 2019, Board staff sent correspondence to Respondent by
electronic mail and overnight delivery, directing him to appear at MPRP on Tuesday,
April 9 at 1:00 p.m. for an intake evaluation. Respondent was advised that his
unreasonable failure or refusal to submit to an examination is prima facie evidence of a
licensed medical practitioner’s inability to practice medicine. -

22. On April 8, 2019, Respondent left a telephone message with Board staff,
stating “I need an attendant to accompany me due to my ambulation problems. ..it’s
_ beyond my control now...my housekeeper does not feel comfortable driving me to
Baltimore.” Respondent did not appear for the third scheduled evaluation.

23. On April 9, 2019, Respondent left two telephone messages with Board
staff, stating the reason he fell the night before was “the bed is too high for my physical
limitation” and that he was “up most of the night because he fell twice and had to have
the rescue squad come.”

CONCLUSION OF LAW

 

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, the Board concludes that the
public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, and that
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2), Respondent's license must be

immediately suspended.

11
ORDER

It is, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A considering
this case:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §
10-226(c)(2), Respondent’s medical license, D09044, to practice as a physician in the
State of Maryland be and is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with Md. Code Regs.
10.32.02.08B(7)(c), D and E on the Summary Suspension, in which Panel A will
determine whether the summary suspension will continue, has been scheduled for May
8, 2019, at 1:15 p.m., at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing held before Panel
A, Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request within ten (10)
days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol. &

2018 Supp.); and be it further

12
ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and, as such, is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and to Md.

Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4—-333(b)(6).

/ D
3 Sh
Dat Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

13
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Glenn Legler, Sr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

have been advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice
throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the right to consult with an
attorney prior to signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and
willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand
both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature of File
/ CSE ACES. “NLD.

NOTARY

STATE OF

CITY/COUNTY Oi W lar iN fowl

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this “day of Vn , 2019 before me,
a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Glenn Legler,
Sr., M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing
of this Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Lh

 

Notary Public

My commission expires:

OC-Ri- OF

Nts RONALD SINKE,
, ay Publi, Montgomery Co, MD
mmission Expires May 24 29 19
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Glenn Legler, Sr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 5

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel KX, on this [ Kas day of Ho , 2019,
I, Ellen Douglas Smith, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Mee
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

hop Saf

Ellen Douglas Smith
Deputy Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

 
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

GLENN D. LEGLER, SR. M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS

LICENSE NUMBER: D09044 * CASE NUMBER: 2219-0105 A

* x * * * * * * x * * * *

ORDER OF SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE
MEDICINE

 

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board’) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS Glenn D. Legler, Sr. M.D.’s (the
“Respondent”) license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D09044.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t ("State Gov’t") § 10-226(c)(2) (20 14 Repl. Vol. and 2018 Supp.), concluding that
the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action. Panel A
bases its conclusion on the following investigative findings.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS'

Panel A has obtained investigatory information that Respondent’s continued

practice of medicine poses a substantial likelihood or risk of serious harm to public health

safety and welfare as evidenced by:

' The statements regarding Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide Respondent with notice of the
basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete description
of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against Respondent regarding this
matter.
1. His telephonic communications with Board staff which raised significant
concerns regarding the effect of his physical mobility limitations on his
ability to practice medicine in a safe and competent manner;

2. His responses in an interview with Board staff which raised significant
concerns regarding his ability to concentrate on the topics discussed,

3. The physical condition of his home office and the lack of a readily
accessible computer and patient medical records;

4, His prescribing controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) for patients who
are geographically distant from his office, including patients who are out-
of-state;

5. His prescribing CDS for himself and a family member, Family Member A’;
and

6. His failure to submit to an appropriate examination on three occasions as
directed by the Board, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-4023

The Board opened this case in November 2018 based on a complaint from a
Corporal with the St. Mary’s County Sheriff’s Office (the “Corporal”). A pharmacist in
St. Mary’s County, in Southern Maryland, called the Corporal because a patient with a St.
Mary’s County address presented a prescription for CDS which had been written by
Respondent whose practice is located in Montgomery County, Maryland.

The Board’s investigation revealed that Respondent, a psychiatrist, predominately
treats individuals with drug addiction and dependence in his home office where there is
no professional staff or other individuals present. The office is located on the lower level
of the home, which is not readily accessible to other individuals who may be present in

the home. Respondent has been experiencing mobility issues for several years. He uses a

? The names of patients are confidential and are not used in a public order. Respondent is aware of the

identity of Family Member A.
> Health Occ. § 14-402 authorizes the Board when investigating an allegation against a licensee to direct
the licensee to a health professional program to submit to an appropriate examination.

2
chair lift from the main level of the home to access his office on the lower level and uses
a walker to ambulate.

In addition, after Board staff conducted a site visit to Respondent’s home office
and interviewed Respondent in March 2019, the focus of the investigation became
Respondent’s competence and potential danger to the public. The Board, however, has
been unable to obtain an assessment of Respondent’s competence since Respondent has
failed to keep three appointments for an intake evaluation and referral for an appropriate
examination.

Based on the investigatory information obtained by Panel A as summarized
above, and the specific instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the
following facts are true and that there is a substantial likelihood of a risk of serious harm

to the public health, safety, or welfare by Respondent.

I Background of License

1. At all times relevant hereto, Respondent was licensed to practice medicine
in Maryland. Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
February 19, 1960. On or about September 26, 2018, Respondent last renewed his
license, which will expire on September 30, 2020.

2. Since 1962, Respondent had also maintained a license to practice medicine
in the District of Columbia (“DC”); however, the license expired on December 31, 2018.

3. Respondent graduated from medical school in 1958. He received post-

graduate training in internal medicine and psychiatry. Respondent also received
psychoanalytic training. Respondent is not, and has never been, board-certified in any
practice areas.

4. Since 1962, Respondent’s practice has included the private practice of
general psychiatry in DC and Maryland, and employment at a forensic psychiatric
hospital in DC and at a drug treatment clinic in Baltimore. Respondent is certified to
prescribe Buprenorphine (Suboxone). Approximately two years ago, Respondent moved
his practice from DC to his home in Montgomery County, Maryland because of his
difficulty in getting to the DC office. Respondent employs an individual to assist with
filing, approximately once a week; however, the individual has not been available for
several weeks.

5. Respondent has an active DEA registration. Respondent’s most recent
Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration in Maryland was issued on October 19,

2017 and expired on March 31, 2019.

Il. Complaint
6. On November 14, 2018, the Board received a complaint from the Corporal,

stating that he had received a report of concern from a pharmacy in St. Mary’s County
regarding a prescription from Respondent which was written in Bethesda, Maryland.'
The Corporal called Respondent at the telephone number which was on the prescription
and received a voice message which stated, “missed your call, will get back to you.”

Later Respondent called the Corporal at 11:00 p.m. and stated that the individual was his

4 The normal travel time by automobile from the relevant area in St. Mary’s County to Bethesda,
Maryland is approximately one and a half hours.

4
patient, but he did not remember the prescription. The Corporal reported that he thought
Respondent sounded “intoxicated.”
Ill. Initial Investigation

7. On December 14, 2018, pursuant to a subpoena, the Board received a
computer print-out from the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”) of all
_ CDS written by Respondent from January 1, 2017 to December 5, 2018, documenting
Respondent’s prescribing of CDS medications to multiple patients. Based on an updated
PDMP report obtained on March 12, 2019, the Board subsequently obtained hard copies
of prescriptions from an area pharmacy confirming that Respondent has prescribed
Schedule IV CDS to himself and to Family Member A from approximately January 2017
through March 12, 2018.

8. On February 13, 2019, Board staff received the police report from St.
Mary’s County Sheriffs Office which documents that on September 18, 2018, they
conducted an investigation into a possible fraudulent prescription for amphetamine mixed
salts’ written on Respondent’s prescription pad. The patient, Patient A®, resides in
Charles County, Maryland, which is over an hour from the location of the pharmacy and
the prescription was dropped off by an individual who resides in Lexington Park,
Maryland. The report noted that when the Pharmacist, who is located in California,
Maryland, called the Respondent’s phone number listed on the prescription to confirm

the prescription and the answering machine did not advise that there was a medical

5 Amphetamine mixed salts is the generic name for Adderall.
° The Corporal provided Respondent with the name of Patient A.

5
practice located there. The pharmacist was also concerned because the address of the
prescriber (Respondent) is a residence. The report further documents that the Corporal
also attempted to reach Respondent but received the same voice message. Later in the
day at approximately 11:00 p.m., Respondent called the Corporal and confirmed that
Patient’ A is his patient although he stated the prescription was for Alprazolam (Xanax).
Respondent agreed to call the Corporal the next day after he retrieved and reviewed
Patient A’s file. When Respondent did not call, on September 20, 2018, the Corporal
called Respondent, who reportedly did not recall their conversation on September 18,
2019, Respondent again stated he would have to get Patient A’s file and he would call
back. The Corporal left messages on Respondent’s answering machine on September 25,
2018 and October 3, 2018 but as of November 15, 2018, Respondent had not returned his
calls.

9. On March 6, 2019, the Board notified Respondent of the investigation and
requested a written response to the complaint, which was enclosed. In addition, the
Board issued a subpoena to Respondent for the complete medical records of fourteen (14)
patients, for his current appointment logs, and also issued a subpoena directing him to
appear at the Board for an interview on April 9, 2019.

10. On March 11, 2019, Board staff received a voicemail from Respondent

regarding the March 6, 2019 correspondence. Respondent’s message raised significant
