Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.

Date: Figc \ | chon yOH\
Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor

Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.

License Number: D09071

Case Number: 2220-0236A

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License
Number D09071, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I
may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as
of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender

of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the
State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint based on my fitness to practice
medicine due to my current health status and initiated an investigation into the
allegations. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations
and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure
that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404 (a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel. A
RE: Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.),
and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words,
I agree that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. | understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. | acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision
knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours, /

Signature on File’

Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

state or Movylon’

A
CITY/COUNTY OF [roused

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 22-day of

howl , 2021 be 638714 Oly
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared SHARtES maces: a - Oi Ped

declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter af
Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS ny hand and Notarial seal.

Notary Public wy MING)

My commission expires: Ce | (4 e023

  

ez0emi & 4

 

 

  

 

fai. Saud 5
2S: Nolssinnos ib:
t 1%. S
* Poyta wet
ACCEPTANCE “Ye NON

Meanie

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 240? day of Apu (| 207
2021, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Charles J.
Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File
Maryland Bowe afPysbaen

 

aD.
