 

Youngsik Moon, M.D.

February 15, 2018

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

 

Re: Permanent Letter of Surrender to Practice Medicine
Youngsik Moon, M.D., License# D09178
MBP Case Number: 2217-0094

Dear Dr. Bhandari and members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that | have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D09178,
effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II”), §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.)
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and upon
Disciplinary Panel A's (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice following
the receipt of a complaint alleging substandard quality care. In furtherance of its
investigation, Panel A ordered that | undergo a neuropsychological evaluation, and the
evaluator recommended based on his evaluation that | discontinue the practice of
medicine. | have decided to surrender my license to avoid further investigation and
prosecution of these allegations. These allegations support a violation of Health Occ. II
§ 14-404(a)(4) (is professionally, physically or mentally incompetent).

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of the allegations. | acknowledge that for all purposes relevant to my medical licensure
in Maryland, that these allegations will be treated as if proven.
Arun Bandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Younsik Moon, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

| understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender | am waiving
my right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary allegations. In waiving my right to
contest the allegations, | am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the
hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right
to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that | have
surrendered my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in the event | would
apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, | will provide
access to and copies of medical records to my patients in compliance with Title 4,
subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other
words, | agree that | have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. | further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated
to consider any application for licensure or reinstatement that | might file at a future
date.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part
or in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have
been advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | have consulted with an attorney before
signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. | understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter
of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.
Arun Bandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Younsik Moon, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Very truly yours,
Signature on File

Younsik Moon, M.D.

NOTARY
STATE OF MARYLAND '

CITY/COUNTY OF 37. Manfp
| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 36h day of

lanuand- , 2018, before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, perso

nally appeared Youngsik Moon, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 
  

 

My commission expires: 08/24 | 20/9 .

O
zi
asl 26, 2088- F
ACCEPTANCE “im COUNTY, Wo
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this jot say of rhrvary |
2018, |, Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, accept Younsik Moon, M.D.’s
PERMANENT SURRENDER of his license to practice m
Maryland. Ce

medicine in the State of

  

 

Christine A. ot

Maryland State Board
