Date: Joly 30, 202]

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4'" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Carol Posner, M.D. License Number; D09427
Case Number: 2220-0115B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl, Vol, & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D09427, effective
immediately. [understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ, §§ 14-101 et seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

T understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (‘Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

Tacknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on March
1, 2021, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22),
(33), and (40). Specifically, Panel B alleged I failed to meet appropriate standards for the
delivery of quality medical care, failed to keep adequate medical records, and failed to
cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board. A copy of the charges is
attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges,

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I
acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated
as if proven.

T understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges, In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Carol Posner, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

l understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 et seg. (2019), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action
by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I
file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position
as an individual whose license has been revoked.

L acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B,
including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I
have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of
Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very teibdly Hates

Signature on File

Carol Posner, M.D.
20. The peer reviewers’ final opinions, which took in to consideration all of the
records including the records provided with the Respondent’s response to the initial peer
review reports, was that the Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the
delivery of quality medical care for four patients for reasons including, but not limited to:

a. Failed to coordinate care between other providers, both inside of the
clinic and outside of the clinic, who were also prescribing
benzodiazepines to the patient at the same time the Respondent was
prescribing benzodiazepines (Patient 2; Patient 4; Patient 8);

b. The Respondent utilized benzodiazepines as a first line treatment for
disorders such as panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and
major depressive disorder (Patient 3; Patient 4; Patient 8);

c. Prescribed excessively high doses of benzodiazepines (Patient 2;
Patient 3; Patient 4);

d. Prescribed benzodiazepines for long-term use (Patient 2; Patient 3;
Patient 8);

¢. Prescribed a high quantity of benzodiazepines to a patient with concerns
of abuse and diversion (Patient 4);

f. Failed to use urine toxicology screening to monitor patient adherence to
treatment and avoidance of diversion (Patient 2); and

g. Failed to conduct CRISP® inquiries (Patient 2; Patient 4).

© CRISP stands for “Chesapeake Regional Information on our Patients.”

7
21. The peer reviewers initial reports and supplemental reports concurred that
the Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records for Patient 5 for reasons
including, but not limited to: the Respondent failed to include sufficient detail regarding
the time spent with the patient,

Interview

22, As part of the Board’s investigation, the Respondent was interviewed under
oath on July 1, 2020. As part of that interview, the Respondent provided the following:

a, She has retired from private practice and is working part-time in a
clinic.

b. She obtains CRISP reports on her patients approximately every three
months unless she becomes suspicious of the patient, then she gets one
immediately. When she was in private practice her secretary would
obtain the CRISP reports for her. Since she has been at the Clinic she
has asked the secretary to obtain the CRISP reports for all of her
patients, For a period of time, however, the secretary at the Clinic was
not getting the CRISP reports. But the secretary at the Clinic is now
oblaining the reports for her. She further explained that she would have
personally obtained the CRISP reports herself, instead of having her
secretary do it, if that had been required, but she “was not aware that
CRISP required that I personally use the computer to get in to CRISP.”

c. She does not use drug contracts for her patients.
d. Typically, when she does an initial visit with a patient she administers a
urine drug screen. However, she does not administer any additional
screens after the initial drug screen “if they’re not showing any life
problems.”

e. When asked how she knew her patients were not using illicit drugs if
she was not doing drug contracts or conducting urine drug screens, the
Respondent explained that her private practice patients were “normal
working people, good family people” and “don’t have any problems at
all that suggest drug use or drug abuse” because “when people use illicit
drugs, their life is messed up.” She further explained that she does
conduct routine urine testing for her patients from the Clinic “because
this is an entirely different population from my mostly upper middle
class private patients.”

f. The Respondent admitted that for several years she would write
Patient | three prescriptions at a time but would leave the date blank on
two of the prescriptions, and then the patient would fill the date in
before taking the prescriptions to the pharmacy to be filled. The
Respondent explained her actions by stating, “[t]his patient was, was a
responsible worker, had a steady, reliable life, was, had a, you know,
decent family life. There were no signs of drug abuse. He never lost his
prescriptions, the dog never ate his prescription and he never asked for

more. He was totally reliable.”
g. Regarding Patient 4, the Respondent explained that at the initial visit
with Patient 4, Patient 4 denied previous drug abuse but stated that she
had surgery and then went on Suboxone to taper off of a narcotic she
had been taking. Therefore, she gave Patient 4 “two weeks’ worth of
Klonopin,’ hoping to get a CRISP report on her.” Patient 4 then returned
several days later and said her husband had thrown all of the Klonopin
away. However, Patient 4’s husband said Patient 4 had taken all of the
Klonopin, “but she didn’t become unconscious, she seemed a little
muddled, but they didn’t bother to take her to the hospital.” The
Respondent further explained that “she wasn’t sure which of them was
lying .... But since the family didn’t seem that concerned about her
ingesting two weeks’ worth of Klonopin, I didn’t know which one was
lying, so I gave her a weeks’ worth of Klonopin.”

h. Regarding Patient 8, the Respondent explained that Patient 8 told her
that Patient 8 was getting Ativan® from the Respondent and an internist
simultaneously. At that time, the Respondent instructed Patient 8 to
obtain her medications from only one provider. After providing
Patient 8 this instruction, she believed she ensured the patient complied
with her instruction by obtaining a CRISP report “if it was after we

started using the CRISP .... [b]ut she... didn’t abuse any other drugs.

” Klonopin (genetic name clonazepam) is a benzodiazepine and a Schedule IV controlled dangerous
substance.
* Ativan (generic name lorazepam) is a benzodiazepines and a Schedule IV controlled dangerous
substance.
She didn’t even smoke, she wasn’t even addicted to coffee or nicotine
and she wasn’t acting funny. And she had a normal, healthy life and a
successful family life, so she gave me no indications that she was
abusing anything.”
i. Finally, when asked if there was anything else she would like put on the
record, the Respondent stated, “I’ve always been very stingy with
Benzos . . . to get Benzos out of me is like trying to get gold out of Fort
Knox,”
Grounds for Discipline
23. The Respondent’s actions, as described above, constitute, in whole or in
part, failure to meet the appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), failure to cooperate with a lawful investigation
conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(33), and/or failure to keep adequate medical records, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(40).

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds for
action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), (33) and/or (40), it may impose disciplinary
sanctions against the Respondent’s license in accordance with the Board’s regulations
under Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.09 and 10.32.02.10, including revocation, suspension, or

reprimand, and may place the Respondent on probation. The panel may, in addition to
one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the

Respondent.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION
CONFERENCE, PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

A conference before Disciplinary Panel B, sitting as the Disciplinary Committee
for Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter, is scheduled for Wednesday, June 23,
2021, at 9:00 a.m., at the Board’s office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland
21215, The Respondent must confirm in writing their intention to attend the DCCR. The
Respondent should send written confirmation of their intention to participate in the
DCCR to: Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, Maryland State Board of Physicians,
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4th Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose
of the DCCR is described in the attached letter to the Respondent.

If the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a pre-hearing conference and a
hearing in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101
Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in accordance
with Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-201 ef seq. (2014 Repl.

Vol. & 2020 Supp.).

BRIAN E. FROSH
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MARYLAND

 

03/01/2021

Date Kelly Cooper
Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor

12
Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation
Division

300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

(410) 767-5828

Fax (410) 333-5831
Kelly.cooper@maryland.gov
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Carol Posner, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF Manj\and
CITY/COUNTY OF Qecllimore.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this day of Wear . , 2021 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Carol Posner, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

AJADA THOMAS
Notary Public

Baltimore County lete tyes

  

Maryland Z
My Commission Expires Mar. 23, 2022 Notary’Public

My commission expires: Wardn 34, 909a

ACCEPTANCE
wi «BO? os Ful
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 2’ day of V Vie, 2021, I,
Christine A, Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Carol Posner, M.D.’s license

to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. . .
S. ignature on File

Chelating A. Farrelly: Execktiy tive Director 6)
Maryland Board of Physicians
Attachment |
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

CAROL POSNER, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent ¥ BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D09427 * Case Number: 2220-0115B

* * x * * * x * * * * * ®

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT

 

Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
hereby charges CAROL POSNER, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number D09427,
with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. § 14-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.). The pertinent provisions of the

Act provide the following:

Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions,
and revocations -- Grounds.

(a) Jn general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical
and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this State;

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by
the Board or a disciplinary panel;
(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review[.]

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!
Disciplinary Panel B of the Board bases its charges on the following facts that it
has cause to believe are true:

I. BACKGROUND

1, At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on March 15, 1971, under License Number D09427. The
Respondent’s license is currently active and scheduled to expire on September 30, 2021.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in psychiatry.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent owned a solo private practice
until she closed her private practice and began working at a clinic (the “Clinic”).?
I. THE COMPLAINT

4, On or about September 4, 2019, the Board received a complaint from the
daughter (the “Complainant”) of one of the Respondent’s patient’s (“Patient 4”) who

raised concems about the benzodiazepines the Respondent prescribed to Patient 4,

' The allegations set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the
charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of the
evidence, cither documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with
these charges.

* For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in
this case are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and
health care facilities referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosceutor.

2
Ill. BOARD INVESTIGATION

5. After reviewing the above complaint, the Board initiated an investigation of
the Respondent. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained a series of patient
records, interviewed the Respondent, and obtained a peer review of her practice.

Patient Records

6. By letter dated October 2, 2019, the Board notified the Respondent that it
had opened a preliminary investigation of the matter and provided her with a copy of the
Complaint. The Board directed the Respondent to provide within ten business days a
summary of the care she provided to nine listed patients (“Patients 1-9”).

7. On October 2, 2019, the Board also issued the Respondent a Subpocna
Duces Tecum that directed the Respondent to transmit to the Board within ten business
days “a complete copy of any and all medical records for [Patients 1-9] along with the
enclosed Certification of Medical Records.” The subpoena further notified the
Respondent that for failure to comply with the subpoena, a disciplinary panel of the
Board may charge her with failure to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by
the Board pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33).

8. On or about October 23, 2019, the Respondent transmitted to the Board

medical records, a summary of patient care, and a signed certificate of medical records

for each of the nine patients.

> In an effort to obtain the full medical records the Board subsequently subpoenaed and obtained medical
records from the clinic for the four paticnts the Respondent treatcd at the clinic — Patient 2, Patient 4,
Patient 6, and Paticnt 7.
10.
HH.
further investigation in the matter was warranted and requested that the Respondent

provide a written response to the complaint within ten business days. The Board also

The certificate of medical records signed by the Respondent states:

1 C. Jean Posner, MD do hereby certify and solemnly affirm
under the penalties of perjury, that to the best of my knowledge,
information and belief, the enclosed medical records in response to
the attached subpoena are an accurate reproduction of any and all
records in my possession or constructive possession and are in
compliance with the attached subpoena.

I have personally reviewed the entire medical record and
further certify to the best of my knowledge, information and belief,
that I have provided the Maryland Board of Physicians (Board) with
the COMPLETE MEDICAL RECORDS which include all
records pertaining to the care and treatment of the patient

in my possession or constructive
possession and control, including all materials generated by me, or
other health care providers, all laboratory reports, all jacket entries
and all other entries as kept in the regular course of business for cach
patient in my medical practice.

I understand for my failure to provide the complete medical
records to the Board may constitute failure to cooperate with the
Board’s lawful investigation and may result in disciplinary action by
the Board under the Maryland Medical Practice Act.

On the blank line the Respondent handwrote “requested patients.”

By letter dated November 13, 2019,‘ the Board notified the Respondent that

subpoenaed a complete copy of the medical billing records for Patients 1-9.

12,

On or about January 9, 2020, the Respondent transmitted to the Board a

written response and the billing records for each of the nine patients.

13.

provide within five business.days a written statement confirming whether she personally

By letter dated June 17, 2020, the Board requested that the Respondent

* The Board also emailed the documents to the Respondent on December 11, 2019.

4
prepared the summaries of care she previously submitted to the Board and a written
statement confirming whether the Board has received the complete medical records for
the nine patients.

14. On or about June 26, 2020, the Respondent submitted a written response to
the Board stating, “I personally dictated the summaries and my secretary typed and
transmitted them. I typed the missing notes for the clinic patients but for some reason
they were either misfiled or not filed in their charts.”

15. By letter dated November 2, 2020, the Board provided the Respondent with
the peer reviewers’ findings and gave her an opportunity to submit a written response to
the peer review reports within thirteen business days.°

16. On or about December 4, 2020, the Respondent, through counsel,
transmitted to the Board a detailed eleven page response, as well as, over 3,000 pages of
medical records for Patient 1, Patient 3, Patient 5, Patient 8, and Patient 9, many of which
the Respondent had not previously provided to the Board.

Peer Review

17. In furtherance of its investigation, the Board submitted the nine patient
records (referenced supra as “Patients 1-9”) and related materials to two physicians who
are board-certified in psychiatry, for a practice review to determine if the Respondent

complied with appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care and kept

> The Respondent was subsequently granted an extension until December 4, 2020, to submit her written
response.
adequate medical records. On or about October 22, 2020, the peer reviewers submitted
their reports to the Board.

18. In their initial reports the two physician peer reviewers concurred that the
Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), for five out of nine patients (identified on the
peer review reports as Patients 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8). The peer reviewers further concurred that
the Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(40), for three out of nine patients (identified on the peer review reports as
Patients 1, 5, and 8).

19. After the Respondent submitted to the Board a detailed response to the peer
reviewers’ initial reports, along with the voluminous medical records (referenced supra
4] 16), the written response and additional medical records were provided to the peer
reviewers to ascertain what, if any, impact the additional information had on their
opinion. In their supplemental reports the peer reviewers reported that the additional
information did have an impact on some of their opinions, but concurred that the
Respondent still failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical
care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), for four out of nine patients (identified
on the peer review reports as Patients 2, 3, 4, and 8). The peer reviewers further
concurred that the Respondent still failed to keep adequate medical records, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), for one out of nine patients (identified on the peer review

reports as Patient 5).
