Carolyn J. Pass, M.D.

March 16, 2023

Date

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4” Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Carolyn J. Pass, M.D. License Number: D10952
Case Number: 2223-0028 B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please’ be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Oce.”) §14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I, pursuant to the duly authorized powers of
attorney held by my sons Steven Susel and Gary Susel to manage all of my affairs,
have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D10952, effective immediately.
I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland
as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§
14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of
this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT, and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B’s”) acceptance, becomes
a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint from a patient that
included concerns about ty health, and the Board initiated an investigation. The
Board’s investigation revealed that I have health issues that are affecting my ability
to practice medicine safely. I further acknowledge that on February 7, 2023, Panel
B summarily suspended my license. I have decided to surrender my
Permanent Letter of Surrender
In re: Carolyn J. Pass, MD.
License No. D10952; Case No. 2223-0028B

license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation
and the issuance of charges.

I recognize that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland that
I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and further
prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these
allegations.

[understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a
formal evidential hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provide by law, including the right to appeal
to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other
state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2022), and that this Letter
of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also
agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office
of Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any
application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.
Permanent Letter of Surrender
In re: Carolyn J. Pass, MD.
License No. D10952; Case No. 2223-0028B

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever.

Ihave consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this
letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland.

T understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Signature On File
\_.. Ste¥én ahd Gary Susel, pursuant to

powers of attorneys on behalf of Carolyn
J. Pass, M.D.
Permanent Letter of Surrender
In re: Carolyn J. Pass, M.D.
License No. D10952; Case No. 2223-0028B

NOTARY
state or Maylene /
CITY/COUNTY OF __ fh act

IHEREBY CERTIFY that on this 7 _ day of Move L , 2023 before
me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Steven and
Gary Susel, pursuant to powers of attomeys on behalf of Carolyn J. Pass, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.
Notary Publio ESE Public
My commission expires: OY, (M2 /COLS

 

ACCEPTANCE
. f “if
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this _[ tot day of [ VA On , 2023,

I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Carolyn J. Pass,
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, xecutive Direcfor\
Maryland Board of Physicians /
