Rifat K. Abousy, M.D.

Date: February A, 2022

 

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Rifat K. Abousy, M.D.
License Number: D12729
Case Number: 2221-0110

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) § 14-403
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland, License Number D1 2729, effective immediately. I understand that upon
surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or
without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date
of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland,

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

I acknowledge that the Board issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(40) (fails to keep adequate medical records). I closed my office and transferred all of
my patients prior to December 31, 2021 to take care of my wife. I have decided to surrender my
license in the State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of these disciplinary charges and due
to my retirement and caregiver responsibilities.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges and because of my
retirement and caregiver responsibilities. | acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical
licensure in Maryland, the charges will be treated as proven.
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: — Rifat K. Abousy, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

T understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest the
disciplinary charges in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, | also understand that in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender
may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen, Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2020 Repl.
Vol.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that I have already provided access to and copies of patient medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license in
Maryiand will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event
that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms
and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of
the integrity and reputation of the profession. | further understand that if I file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose
license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. 1 consulted with and
was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to practice
medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A's actions and this Letter of
Surrender fully. 1 acknowledge that [ understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File
Rifat K. Abousy, M.D.
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Pane! A
RE: Rifat K. Abousy, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

STATE OF Mo
CITY/COUNTY OF Howard

not
IHEREBY CERTIFY that on this > day of O'% _, 2022, before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Rifat K. Abousy, M.D., and declared and
affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was a voluntary

act and deed,
AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

HYUN BUM LEE
04117/2025 No lic

HOWARD COUNTY
My commission expires: . Q k/ ie / Lovk

ACCEPTANCE .
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 4 day of Fear Wally, 2022, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Rifat K, Abousy, M.D.’s license to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Exécutive Director,
Maryland State Board off Physicians
