Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Ann-Louise Silver, M.D. License Number: D13368
Case Number:2221-0126

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D13368, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

[ understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a patient complaint alleging that I made
inappropriate remarks, billed for visits which did not occur, and maintained no medical
record and that the Board initiated an investigation into the allegations. I have decided to
permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current retirement.
I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall
be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine),

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand
that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Ann-Louise Silver, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same
extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Gen, Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Permanent
Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
Thave no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any
application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.

IT acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.

Very fruly yours, « aA
oe

Ann-Louise Silver, M.D.

™

on File
7
Damean W.E. Freas, D,O, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Ann-Louise Silver, M.D,

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

STATE OF JYiu m4 Lu rol
CITY/COUNTY OF No. rucch
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 3rd day of Argus , 2021 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeated Ann-Louise Silver, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

NOTARY

     
 

JHITEA L, MULLEN
Notary Public ~ State of Maryland
Prince George's County
My Commission Expires Aug 5, 2021

 
      
 

My commission expires: hui  202\

ACCEPTANCE

1, ¢t
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this it day of Avs SA, 2021, 1,
Christine A, Farrelly, accept the PERMANENT PUBLIC SURRENDER of Ann-Louise
Silver, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,

Signature on File
Christine A. Farrélly, Ekedutive Diregigr
Maryland Board of Physi¢ians
