William B. Russell, M.D.

October 17, 2017

Damean W, E. Freas, D,O., Chair, Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D 13586
* Case Number: 2017-0295

Dear Dr, Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that I have voluntarily decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State.of Maryland, License Number D13586, effective immediately, I understand
that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual with or
without compensation and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in
the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the "Act"), Md, Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § § 14- 1 01 et seg. (2014 Rep. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter or Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State'of Maryland.

L understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUM ENT and that upon the acceptance
_ of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians, becomes a FINAL ORDER of the Board,

L acknowledge that pending at the time of this voluntary surrender are disciplinary charges by
Disciplinary Panel B pursuant to Md, Health Occ. Code § 14-403(a)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine); § 14-404(a)(28) (failure to comply with the provisions of § 12-102 of this [Health
Occupations] article; and § 14-404(a)(36) (willfully makes a false representation when seeking or making
application for licensure or any other application related to the practice or medicine, The Boards
investigation revealed that I dispensed prescription drugs after my permit to dispense prescription drugs
expired, Before charges were filed, both I and my former employer admitted to the Board that an error had
contributed to the violation, I understand that for purposes related to medical licensure; those charges will be
treated as proven, The charges are attached and incorporated as Attachment A.

wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit this Letter of
Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned allegations set forth in the charging document, and
because of my planned retirement from the practice of medicine. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I
understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, Lam waiving my right to contest the charges in a
formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and to all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

L affirm that upon acceptance of this Letter of Surender by Disciplinary, Panel B, I will not practice
or seek to practice medicine in the State of Maryland or elsewhere. I further affirm that I will not maintain a
medical office nor will I maintain any privileges at any hospital, outpatient surgical facility, nursing home or
any other health care facility in the State of Maryland.

I understand that the Board will advise the federation of State Medical Boards, the National
Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and
in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license to avoid further disciplinary action under the
Act. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board or Panel B to the same
extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code An n., Gen. Prov. §§
4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter or Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

L affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my original
Maryland medical license, number D13586, any renewal wallet cards and wall certificate. I also affirm that J
will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4. subtitle 3 of the
Health General article. . :

I further recognize and agree that by tendering this permanent Letter of Surrender that my license will
remairi permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no right to réapply for a license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. I further agree that the Board or a disciplinary panel is not
obligated to consider any application for licensure that I might file at a future date.

. L acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for any reason
whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that 1 have been advised of my right to be represented by an
attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney
prior to signing this Letter of Surrender, and that I have consulted with an attorney before signing this Letter
of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning, terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Sincerely,

Mb Bob tA

William B. Russell;M.D.

   
 
 
NOTARY
|
|

STATE OF 4h Line

CITY/COUNTY OF 7

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this /W day of October, 2017, before me, a Notary Public
of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared William B., M.D., and declared and affirmed
under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and
deed.

 
   

ze,

hia WANE, Hoge
OS eaesi0N Sh
is OTAR oy
: Oe:

       
 
     
    
 

AS WITNESS my hand and notarial seal.

Ee

   

 

:
2 Fup’ i 9g

  

7 .
Pp ib) . *
Notary Public se o. es
44/5 a 0} “cos ge
My commission expires: 0 Fs [xe i8 — ae a
ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this day of Odeber, 2017, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept William B. Russell's PERMANENT PUBLIC SURRENDER of his license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 
  

 

 

Christine A. Farrelly,Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physici:
IN THE MATTER OF sO BEFORE THE
WILLIAM B. RUSSELL, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D13586 * Case Number: 2017-0295B
* * * * * * * * * * * k * *

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT

Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board"),
hereby charges William B. Russell, M.D. (the “Respondent’), License Number:
D13586, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’), codified at Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. The Respondent is charged under
the following provisions of Health Oce. § 14-404(a):

(3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine; .

(28) Fails to comply with the provisions of § 12-102 of this article;
- [and] :

(36) Willfully makes a false representation when seeking or
making application for licensure or any other application
related to the practice of medicine[-]

The relevant provisions under Health Occ. § 12-102 provide:
(c) Preparing of prescriptions by licensed dentist, veterinarian,
physician, etc.; exception.

(2) This title does not prohibit:

(ii) A licensed dentist, physician, or podiatrist from personally
preparing and dispensing the dentist's, physician's, or
podiatrist's prescriptions when:
1. The dentist, physician, or podiatrist:

A. Has applied.to the board of licensure in this
State which licensed the dentist, physician, or
podiatrist;

Cc. Has received a written permit from that board
, to dispense prescription drugs or devices
except that a written permit is not required in
order to dispense starter dosages or samples
with charge[.]

ALLEGATIONS OF EACT'

 

Disciplinary Panel B bases its charges on the following facts that Disciplinary
_Panel B has cause to believe are true:

1. At all times relevant, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on or about January 15, 1954, under License Number D13586.
The Respondent's license is active and current through September 30, 2017.

2. On or about July 11, 2006, the Board issued the Respondent a dispensing
permit under permit number 1254. The Respondent's dispensing permit expired on
June 29, 2016. The Respondent did not submit a renewal application for his dispensing
permit at that time.

3. On or about October 25, 2016, the Respondent submitted an application

to the Board to renew his dispensing permit (‘renewal application"), which the Board

issued, effective November 1, 2016.

 

‘ The allegations set forth in this document are intended fo provide the Respondent with notice of the
alleged charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of

the evidence, either documentary or testimonial. to be offered against the Respondent in connection with
these charges.

2
4. On his renewal application, the Respondent verified that he completed
-the continuing education (“CE”) credits relating to the preparing and dispensing of
prescription drugs. .

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing his
renewal application, noting that his dispensing permit had expired in June of 2016. Ina
letter to the Respondent dated November 4, 2016, Board. staff requested a written
response regarding his late renewal.

6. In a letter to the Board dated November 23, 2016, the Respondent
acknowledged that he failed to renew his dispensing permit when it expired, and that he
dispensed medication during that time. .

7. The Board's investigation determined that the Respondent dispensed
prescription medications without a valid permit from. June 29, 2016 through October of
2016.

8. During the Board's investigation, the Respondent, in a letter to the Board

dated December 6, 2016, informed the Board of the following:

As you are aware, my drug dispending permit (Permit # 1254) expired. |
was in the process of completing the on-line CME testing to qualify for a
new permit, and had successfully completed most of the requirements.
Unfortunately, without my knowledge or approval, one of my assistants
took it upon herself to complete the on-line CME testing in my name.

9. The Respondent wrote that he would no longer dispense medications until
"he hears differently.”
10. By letter dated December 6, 2016, the Respondent's employer, notified

the Board of the same. The employer wrote, in part:

The Respondent] was in the process of completing the on-line testing, and
had passed some - but not all- of the required tests.

3
Unbeknownst to anyone else at the [the employer] (including [the
Respondent]), one of [the Respondent's] assistants took it upon herself to
complete the on-line tests for [the Respondent]. This was discovered as
part of our internal process of verifying dispensing authority. The assistant
was questioned and admitted to finishing the testing instead of [the
Respondent], and stated that [the Respondent] was unaware of her
"agsistance." As a result of [the assistant's] actions, we have terminated
her employment with us. [The Respondent] was questioned and confirmed

that he was totally unaware of her actions.
41. The Respondent's conduct, as set forth above, constitutes a violation of
one or more of the following provisions of the Act: Health Occ. §§ 14-404(3)(ii)
Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; and/or (28) Fails to comply with the

provisions of § 12-102 of this article; and/or (36) Willfully makes a false representation

when seeking or making application for licensure or any other application related to the

practice of medicine.
NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

lf, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds
for action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (28) and/or (36), it may impose
disciplinary sanctions against the Respondent's license in accordance with the Board’s
regulations under Md. Code Regs.10.32.02.09 and 40.32.02.10, including revocation,

suspension, or reprimand and may place the Respondent on probation, and/or may

impose a monetary fine.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION CONFERENCE,
PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

 

A Disciplinary Conference for Case Resolution (‘DCCR’)in this matter has been
scheduled for Wednesday June 28, 2017, at 9:00 a.m. at the offices of the Board, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, 21215. The Respondent must confirm in writing
his intention to attend the DCCR. The Respondent should send written confirmation of
his intention to participate in the DCCR to: Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director,
Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR is described in the attached
letter to the Respondent.

‘If the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a pre-hearing conference and a
hearing in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101
Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in
accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov't

§§ 10-201 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.).
{flo ot
Date

BRIAN E. FROSH
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MARYLAND

Kara Wilcox Mundy

Assistant Attorney General

Office of the Attorney General

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation
Division

Suite 201, 300 West Preston Street

Baltimore, Maryland 21201

(410) 767-3448
