IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

RICHARD M. HUNT, JR., M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D13619 * Case Number: 7720-0060 A

* * * * x * * * * * * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On January 6, 2020, Richard M. Hunt, Jr., M.D. (the “Respondent”) and
Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A” or the “Panel”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the “Board”) entered into a Consent Order to resolve charges Panel A had issued against
the Respondent. On December 11, 2020, Panel A issued a Violation of Consent Order and
Notice to Show Cause (“Notice to Show Cause”) charging the Respondent with violating
the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. Specifically, Panel A charged the
Respondent with violating the following provisions of the Consent Order:

ORDERED that the Respondent shall, within 30 DAYS from the date
of this Consent Order submit to the Board for Board approval:

(1) a letter to be sent to the complainant patients listed in this Consent
Order stating the Respondent closed his medical practice in August
2018 and he has destroyed all medical records that were not already
obtained by the patients; and

(2) a newspaper advertising notice for publication stating that the
Respondent closed his medical practice in August 2018 and that he has
destroyed all medical records that were not already obtained by patients;
and it is further

ORDERED that within 30 DAYS after the approval of the letter and
the newspaper advertising notice from the Board, the Respondent shail:
(1) publish the notice for two consecutive weeks in a daily newspaper

that is circulated locally in the area of his former medical practice;
and

(2) send by first class mail to the last known address of the 4 patients
who filed complaints with the Board who are referenced in this
Consent Order[.]

The Consent Order also contained the following provisions:

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term
or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice
and an opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative
Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions
process before a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is
no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause
hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may,
in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary
fine on the Respondent[.]

The Notice to Show Cause notified the Respondent that a show cause hearing was
scheduled for Wednesday, February 10, 2021, at 11:15 am. The Notice of Hearing was

sent by first-class regular mail to the address the Respondent provided the Board. Prior to

the hearing, the Board sent several emails to the Respondent’s email of record, notifying -

the Respondent that the show cause hearing was going to be held by Zoom video-
conference and that he was invited for testing to assure that the Zoom platform worked for

him. For instance, an email from the Board was sent to the Respondent on January 28,
2021, which stated, “This is an invitation for a Zoom test with the Respondent and/or
Counsel for Wednesday, February 10 2021 Hearing meeting.” A similar email was sent
on February 8, 2021. And an email was again sent to the Respondent on February 9, 2021,
notifying him of the hearing on February 10, 2021, with the Zoom link for the hearing, and
asking him to sign on to Zoom 10 to 15 minutes before the 11:15 a.m. hearing. None of
the emails were returned to the Board as undelivered, indicating that they were sent to the
correct email address. The Respondent did not respond to any of the emails.

On February 10,2021, 11:15 am, the Respondent did not appear for the Zoom video-
conference hearing. Panel A waited until 11:48 a.m. for the Respondent, but he was not
present. No attorney, nor anyone else, was present to represent the Respondent. The State
was represented by an Assistant Attorney General from the Office of the Attorney General,
who presented for the State.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A makes the following findings of fact:

L License History

1. At all relevant times, the Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. The Board first licensed the Respondent to practice medicine in
Maryland on January 27, 1972, under License Number D13619. The Respondent’s medical

license was set to expire on September 30, 2020; however, it was extended pursuant to the

COVID-19 License Expiration Extension.!

"On March 5, 2020, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan proclaimed a state of emergency due to the COVID-
19 pandemic. On March 12, 2020, Governor Hogan issued an Executive Order, renewed on June 19, 2020,
that ordered that licenses will not expire until 30 days after the state of emergency is lifted, The

3
2. On September 27, 2019, Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the
Maryland Medical Practice Act, specifically Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine); (6) (abandons a patient)
and (13) (on proper request, and in accordance with the provisions of Title 4, Subtitle 3 of
the Health-General Article, fails to provide details of a patient’s medical record to the
patient, another physician, or hospital) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.).

IL Consent Order

3, On January 6, 2020, in order to resolve the pending charges, the Respondent
and Panel A agreed to a Consent Order (the “Consent Order”), which, among other things,
reprimanded the Respondent and ordered that within 30 days from the date of the Consent
Order the Respondent submit to the Board for Board approval: (1) a letter to the
complainant patients listed in the Consent Order stating that the Respondent closed his
medical practice in August 2018 and has destroyed all medical records that were not
already obtained by the patients (the “Letter”); and (2) a newspaper advertising notice for
publication stating that the Respondent closed his medical practice in August 2018 and that
he has destroyed all medical records that were not already obtained by patients (the
“Notice”; the Letter and the Notice will collectively be referred to as the “Documents”).
The Consent Order further ordered that within 30 days after the approval of the Letter and
the Notice from the Board, the Respondent shall: (1) publish the Notice for two consecutive

weeks in a daily newspaper that is circulated locally in the area of his former medical

Respondent’s license expiration was, thus, extended. This order terminates the extension given to the
Respondent as a result of the discipline imposed.
practice; and (2) send by first class mail to the last known address of the four (4) patients
who filed complaints with the Board who are referenced in this Consent Order.

4, By letter dated January 6, 2020, sent to the Respondent’s address of record,?
Board staff, among other things, reiterated the terms of the Consent Order and provided
contact information for the Board.
II. Violation of Consent Order

5. The Board did not receive the Documents within thirty (30) days of the

Consent Order.

6. By letter dated February 28, 2020, the Board requested the Documents by
March 4, 2020. The Respondent did not respond to the letter and the letter was not returned

as undeliverable.

7. By email dated March 6, 2020, sent to the Respondent’s email address of
record, the Board requested that the Respondent send the Documents immediately,

8. On March 6, 2020, Board staff called the Respondent at his phone number
of record.’ Board staff did not speak with the Respondent but left him a voicemail

requesting the Documents.

* The Respondent submitted an application to renew his license to practice medicine in Maryland on August
26, 2018 (the “Application”). The Application indicated that the Board would use the address provided by
the Respondent for official correspondence. On December 4, 2019 the address of record was updated. All
of the Board’s mail correspondence was mailed to the Respondent’s updated address of record,

3 The Board emailed the Respondent at the email address provided by the Respondent on the Application.
The Application indicated that the Board would use the email address for official correspondence. The
Board never received a change of email address from the Respondent and all the Board’s email
correspondence was sent to the email address provided by the Respondent.

‘ Board staff contacted the Respondent at the phone number the Respondent provided on the Application.

The Board never received a change of phone number from the Respondent after he submitted the
Application.
9. On or around March 11, 2020, Board staff called the Respondent and spoke
with him. The Respondent stated that he had not submitted the Documents but indicated
that he would submit the Documents by email on March 13, 2020.

10. On March 19, 2020, the Board received the proposed Documents from the
Respondent for the Board’s approval in the mail.

Il. By letter dated April 8, 2020, the Board notified the Respondent that Panel
A approved the Documents. The letter also requested that the Respondent send the Board
copies of the Letter mailed to the complainant patients and confirmation of purchased

advertising space for the Notice.

12. | The Respondent did not respond to the Board’s April 8, 2020 letter and the
letter was not returned as undeliverable.

13. By letter dated June 2, 2020, Board staff requested proof that the Panel-
approved Letter was sent to the complainant patients and the Panel-approved Notice was
published, in compliance with the terms of the Consent Order or, in the alternative, Board
staffrequested the Respondent to provide a written response explaining his noncompliance.

14. The Respondent did not respond to the letter and the letter was not returned
as undeliverable.

15, On June 29, 2020 and July 8, 2020, Board staff phoned the Respondent and
left voicemails for him. The Respondent did not respond to the voicemails.

16. On or about July 15, 2020, Board staff mailed the Respondent a letter
requesting a written response to his failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the

Consent Order within ten (10) business days, The Board did not receive a response.
17. As of September 9, 2020, the Respondent has not provided proof that the
Panel-approved Letter was sent to the complainant patients and that the Panel-approved

Notice was published in a newspaper.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the findings of fact, the Respondent failed to provide the Board the
Documents within thirty days of the Consent Order, the Respondent failed, within thirty
days after the Board’s approval of the Documents, to mail the Panel-approved Letter to the
four complainant patients, and the Respondent failed to publish the Panel-approved Notice
for two consecutive weeks in a daily newspaper that is circulated locally in the area of his
former practice. These failures on the part of the Respondent constitute violations of the
Consent Order.

SANCTION

The Respondent violated the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. Although
the Respondent had thirty days to provide the Board with a letter for approval and a
“newspaper notice for approval, he did not do so in a timely matter. After several requests
from the Board, he eventually was able to submit to the Board the required letter and notice
and they were approved, but he then failed to send those letters to the four complainant
patients nor did he publish the notice in a newspaper. The purpose of this process was to
notify his patients that the medical records he maintained (that the patients had not already
obtained) had been destroyed. Patients should have been notified of this without the
Board’s involvement. Nonetheless, the Panel has given the Respondent ample opportunity

to fulfill the terms of the Consent Order, but the Respondent has demonstrated to the Panel
that he is either incapable or disinclined to comply the conditions of the Consent Order.
Nor has the Respondent offered an explanation to justify the noncompliance. Under these

circumstances, the Panel finds that revocation is appropriate.

ORDER
It is, thus, by Board Disciplinary Panel A hereby
ORDERED that the license of Richard M. Hunt, Jr., M.D. (License Number
D13619) to practice medicine in Maryland is revoked; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document. Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-41 1.1(b)(2);
and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

| Signanire, on File
03/05 [202(

Date Christine A. Farrell), Exedu oF Directoy’)
Maryland State Board of P ieee
