Antonio Valentin, M.D.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Antonio Valentin, M.D., License Number: D14252
Case Number: 2223-0015

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §14-403
(2021 ReplI. Vol.), [have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, License Number D14252, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health
Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, [ understand that the surrender of my license means that ] am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, it becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”). ] acknowledge that the Board initiated an
investigation following the receipt of information that I may be prescribing medications to
myself and to a family member. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation of these allegations and because I am
permanently retired as a primary care physician and my practice has been permanently closed to
patients. J recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall
be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(3)(ii).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit
this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Antonio Valentin, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.
(2019 Repl. Vol.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that J will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. | also agree to surrender my
Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, J understand that Panel A or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, | will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

L acknowledge that 1 may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand
and comprehend the language, meaning and terms, and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv truly vours.

Signature On File

Antonio Valentin, M.W.
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Antonio Valentin, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

state or “Of lant

CITY/COUNTY OF L" nore SN

%,
THEREBY CERTIFY that on this _7day of O Noes , 2022 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Antionio Valentin, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of per jury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender
was voluntary.

 
   
  
 

2 asi ic
Prince Gearge’s County
Maryland

 
 

My Commins

 

My commission expires: OF Jo /202¢

ACCEPTANCE

i4 oe KY yg

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this! ! ‘| day of Cedt HAL 5 2022, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Antonio Valentin, M. D.’s license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrellyf Executive Director fj
Maryland Board of Physician’ |
