IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

STEPHEN R. SMITH, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent. * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D14957 * Case Number: 7720-0045

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
INTRODUCTION
On November 13, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged Stephen R. Smith, M.D., with unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, willfully making or filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine, failing to
cooperate with a lawful investigation by the Board, under Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii), (11), and (33), respectively, and with violating the Board’s sexual misconduct
regulations, COMAR 10.32.17.03, promulgated under Health Occ. § 1-212(a). The charges
alleged that Dr. Smith inappropriately treated his family members for long term conditions, made
false statements to investigators, and committed significant boundary violations and sexual
misconduct by having a sexual relationship with Patient B.
After a one-day remote hearing before an Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) at the
Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”), on June 8, 2021, the ALJ issued a proposed
decision. The ALJ concluded that Dr. Smith was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine, violated the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations, willfully made or filed a false
report or record in the practice of medicine, and failed to cooperate with a lawful investigation.
The ALJ recommended revocation of Dr. Smith’s license.

' For purposes of confidentiality, the Board will not disclose patient names or the names and type of
relationship of family members.
On September 17, 2021, Dr. Smith filed written exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed
Decision. On October 5, 2021, the State filed a response to Dr. Smith’s exceptions. On
November 17, 2021, Board Disciplinary Panel B (“the Panel” or “Panel B”) heard oral
arguments on Dr. Smith’s exceptions.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B adopts the ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact. The ALJ’s Proposed Findings of
Fact (paragraphs 1-33) are incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set
forth in full. See attached ALJ Proposed Decision, Exhibit 1. The factual findings were proven
by a preponderance of the evidence. The Panel also adopts the ALJ’s discussion set forth on
pages 9-32 of the ALJ’s proposed decision. The findings of facts are summarized below:

Dr. Smith is an endocrinologist originally licensed to practice in Maryland in 1973. Dr.
Smith treated Family Member 1 numerous times and not only in emergency situations.
Specifically, he prescribed medication to Family Member | for allergies, outside his expertise, in
anticipation of Family Member 1’s travel. Dr. Smith treated Family Member 2 for diabetes and
hypertension which are chronic problems of long-term duration.

In 1998, Dr. Smith began to treat Patient B for hypothyroidism. Dr. Smith was informed
of Patient B’s mental health history, including post-traumatic stress disorder (“PTSD”) and
depression and he also knew about a prior abusive relationship. Dr. Smith and Patient B began a
relationship outside the office that became sexually intimate starting in 2005 for several years
while Patient B remained a patient. Dr. Smith stopped keeping medical records for Patient B in
2005, but continued to write Patient B refill prescriptions. In 2013, Dr. Smith “thinned” the

patient file, claiming that it had become too thick.
The Panel further notes that this misstatement was not based on Dr. Smith’s mistaken
belief that the relationship was concurrent. When first asked about why he answered that he had
not had a personal relationship with a patient he was treating, Dr. Smith explained that he “was
in the mindset of the contemporary period. [Dr. Smith’s] relationship with [Patient B] was 13-15
years ago.” This is clearly not what the investigator was asking when she asked “Did you ever
have” such a relationship. At the hearing and exceptions, Dr. Smith changed his answer, and
now claims that he never had a concurrent sexual and patient relationship, because the patient
relationship had ended. The Panel does not believe Dr. Smith’s new explanation. The Panel
concludes that Dr. Smith intentionally withheld the prior overlapping sexual relationships and
patient relationships, which includes both his relationship with Patient B, but also his treatment
of his family members, to avoid a harsher sanction.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that Dr. Smith is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), for providing medical treatment to his
family members and also based on his sexual relationship with Patient B. Panel B concludes that
his sexual relationship with Patient B also violated the Board’s sexual misconduct relegations,
under COMAR 10.32.17.03. Panel B concludes that Dr. Smith is guilty of willfully making or
filing a false report in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11), and
failing to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33), for falsely stating that he had not had a prior sexual

relationship with a patient.

11
SANCTION

The ALJ proposed revoking Dr. Smith’s license. The ALJ noted no mitigating factors,
under COMAR 10.32.02.09B(5), and noted eight aggravating factors under COMAR
10.32.02.09B(6). These include: Dr. Smith’s prior disciplinary history with the Board; the
offense was conducted deliberately; the offense had the potential for harm; the offense was part
of a pattern of detrimental conduct; the patient was especially vulnerable; Dr. Smith attempted to
hide the misconduct from others; Dr. Smith presented false testimony; and Dr. Smith did not
cooperate with the investigation. Additionally, Dr. Smith’s concealment of his relationship with
Patient B led the Board to impose a less stringent sanction when he was disciplined for his sexual
relationship with Patient A because the Board believed it was an isolated incident. Had he been
honest during his prior Board investigation and had the Board been informed that Dr. Smith’s
boundary violation was not an isolated event, but was part of a pattern of similar misconduct, it
is likely that the Board would have imposed a significantly harsher sanction. The ALJ further
noted that Dr. Smith has shown little insight as to the severity of his actions and failed to
acknowledge any wrongdoing.

Before the Panel, Dr. Smith argued that the Panel should not revoke his license because
the Program determined that he was safe to practice with certain restrictions on his license and
that revoking his license would harm the public because there is a shortage of endocrinologists.
The State responded by explaining that the Program’s recommendation was made without the
knowledge that Dr. Smith would subsequently disavow his admissions of wrongdoing.

The Panel finds the ALJ’s reasoning and the State’s arguments persuasive. Dr. Smith’s
violations are significant and demonstrate a troubling pattern of conduct. Rather than a single

isolated instance of boundary crossing, Dr. Smith has demonstrated a pattern of detrimental
conduct and a complete lack of understanding of the required boundaries between professional
and personal relationships.

Dr. Smith knew about the potential vulnerability of Patient B, including her social-
emotional history of depression, PTSD, and her prior abusive relationships, before he entered
into a sexual relationship with her. Dr. Smith nevertheless entered into a sexual relationship with
her while she was a patient.

Dr. Smith explained his prescribing to family members as “common” and in his
circumstance “productive” and “successful.” The ALJ found that Dr. Smith demonstrated no
understanding of why treating family members was a conflict or potentially dangerous. Treating
family members in areas that were entirely outside his area of expertise and for chronic
conditions poses significant patient safety concerns. Dr. Smith’s treatment of his family
members reflects an ignorance of or indifference to patient-physician boundaries.

The Program noted that Dr. Smith acknowledged that he participated in boundary
violations. Dr. Smith has now disclaimed any violations pertaining to Patient A and his family
members and disavowed his statements made to the Program regarding Patient B. The
Program’s recommendations were based on his admission and apparent understanding of the
violations. Dr. Smith’s subsequent denials render the Program’s recommendation irrelevant.

Dr. Smith’s treatment of family members was repeated several times. His sexual
relationship with Patient B was followed by his relationship with Patient A. The Panel has little
confidence that this type of behavior will not recur because Dr. Smith has demonstrated a pattern
of misconduct and has not shown any understanding of appropriate boundaries with either
patients or family members. Finally, his dishonesty before the Board in his original interview

and his later varying explanations for his misstatements to the Board demonstrate such a
troubling lack of candor that the Board has no trust in Dr. Smith’s reassurances. Considering the
many aggravating factors in the case, the lack of mitigating circumstances, and Dr. Smith’s prior
discipline for similar misconduct, the Panel adopts the ALJ’s proposed sanction of revocation.
ORDER

Pursuant to Health Occ. § 1-212(c) and § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (11), and (33), it is, by an
affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Disciplinary Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the license of Stephen R. Smith, M.D. to practice medicine in Maryland,
license number D14957, is REVOKED, and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§

1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

 

o2[p¢/2092 Signature On File
Date Christine A. Faneiy Bleoufve Director Oo
Maryland State Board of Physictans Jf

14
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408(a), Dr. Smith has the right to seek
Judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within 30 days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Dr. Smith files a petition for Judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:

David S. Finkler

Assistant Attorney General

Department of Health and Mental Hygiene
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

15
Exhibit 1
MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF
PHYSICIANS
v.
STEPHEN R. SMITH, M.D.,
RESPONDENT

LICENSE No.: D14957

* * 7 O* * * *

*

BEFORE WILLIS GUNTHER BAKER,
AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE

OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

OAH No.: MDH-MBP-71-21-02096

* * * * * *

PROPOSED DECISION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

ISSUES

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

DISCUSSION

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

On November 13, 2020, a disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians

(Board) issued charges against Stephen R. Smith, M.D. (Respondent) for alleged violations of

the State law governing the practice of medicine. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101

through 14-508, and 14-601 through 14-607 (2014 & Supp. 2020) (Act). The Respondent is

charged with violating section 14-404 of the Act, specifically Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii),

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; 14-404(a)(11), willfully making or filing a

false report in the practice.of medicine; and 14-404(a)(33), failure to cooperate with a lawful

investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, Jd. (Supp. 2020); Code of

Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.02.03E(3)(d). Further, the Board determined that these

actions
constitute a violation of the Board’s regulations promulgated under Ma. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§ 1-212(a)(1) (prohibiting sexual misconduct).

The disciplinary panel delegated the matter to the Office of Administrative Hearings .
(OAH) for issuance of Proposed Findings of Fact, Proposed Conclusions of Law, and Proposed -
Disposition. COMAR 10.32.02.03E(5); COMAR 10.32.02.04B(1).

Theld a remote hearing on June 8, 2021 via the Webex platform from the OAH in Hunt
Valley, Maryland. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405(a) (Supp. 2020); COMAR
10.32.02.04; 28.02.01.20B. John T. Sly, Esquire, represented the Respondent, who was present.
Robert Gilbert, Assistant Attorney General and Administrative Prosecutor, represented the State
of Maryland (State).

Procedure in this case is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative

Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings Before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the Office of Administrative Hearings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201

through 10-226 (2014 & Supp. 2020); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.

ISSUES
1. Did the Respondent violate the cited provisions of the applicable law? If so,
2. ‘What sanctions are appropriate?

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
Exhibits
l admitted the following exhibits into evidence.on behalf of the Board:
Bd. Ex.1- ° Respondent’s Licensing Information, pp. 1-4! .
Bd. Ex.2- Transcribed Interview of the Respondent, January 28, 2019, pp. 5-18
Bd. Ex.3- Consent Order, November 8, 2019, pp. 19-36

 Allreferences to Board Exhibit page numbers are the Bates stamp numbers in the lower right comer.

2
Bd. Ex. 4 -

Bd. Ex. 8 -
Bd, Ex. 9 -

Bd. Fix. 10-

Bd Ex. 11 -
Bd. Ex, 12 -
Bd. Ex. 13 -
Bad, Ex. 14 -

"Bd. Bx, 15 -

August 18, 2020 Email from the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(MPRP) to the Board, attaching Fe rarermermnr omar es
Program Assessment Report of the Respondent, July 2, , pp. 37-54

Correspondence from the Board to the Respondent, August 20, 2020, pp. 55-56

Email from John Sly to Board attaching Correspondence from the Respondent,
August 27, 2020, pp. 57-60

. Subpoena and Medical Records for Patient B, received by the State,

September 9, 2020, pp. 61-124
Certification of Patient B Medical Records, September 26, 2020, pp. 125-26
Board Report of Investigation, September 28, 2020, pp. 127-30

American Medical Association (AMA) Code of Medical Ethics’ Opinion 8.19,
pp. 131-32

AMA Code of Medical Ethics’ Opinion 1.2.1, pp. 133-34

AMA Code of Medical Ethics’ Opinion 9.1.1, pp. 135-36

Curriculum io = M.D,, pp. 137-38

Report of Dr. March 12, 2021, pp. 139-42

Disciplinary Charges against the Respondent, Case No.; 7720-0045A, pp. 143-50

T admitted the following exhibit into evidence on behalf of the Respondent:

Resp, Ex. L- Curriculum Vitae, Stephen R. Smith, M.D.

Testimony

The following witness testified on behalf of the Board: PF M.D. who

was admitted as an expert in Internal Medicine, Gastroenterology, and Professional Ethics.

The Respandent testified in his own behalf.
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT?
The parties agreed to the following stipulations of fact in the captioned case that I
find as facts by a preponderance of the evidence:
1. On March 15, 1973, the Board issued the Respondent a license to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland under License Number D14957.
2. The Respondent has retained continuous licensure in Maryland since that time.
The Respondent’s license is scheduled for renewal on or before September 30, 2021.

3. In 2018, the Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a
series of complaints involving his prescribing practices,

4, During the course of its investigation, the Board conducted a transcribed, under- :
oath interview of the Respondent on January 28, 2019.

5. After completing its investigation, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Board
issued disciplinary charges against the Respondent on July 18, 2019, under Board Case Numbers
2218-0253A and 2219-0014A.

6. The Respondent resolved Panel A’s charges by entering into a public Consent
Order, dated November 8, 2019, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and an
Order (Consent Order). Panel A found as a matter of law that the Respondent violated the
following provisions of the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.

§§ 14-101 et seq.: Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3) Is guilty of: (Gi) Unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine; Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as
determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care, in
violation of Health Occ, § 14-404(a)(22); and Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40) Fails to keep

adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer review. Panel A also found that the

2] have replaced all references to the Respondent’s name Va “the Respondent.”
In 2009, Dr. Smith treated Family Member 3? for a serious medical condition that was
outside his area of expertise, including prescribing and refilling medications. He also prescribed
medications for potential conditions such as malaria, diarrhea, and motion-sickness when she
travelled.

In 2017 and 2018, Dr. Smith saw Patient A fifteen times for chronic pain and anxiety.
Dr. Smith prescribed Patient A oxycodone and benzodiazepines without obtaining her past
medical records. At some point he began a relationship with Patient A that involved some sexual
intimacy, but no sexual intercourse. The Board learned of this relationship from Dr. Smith as
part of an investigation that stemmed from three complaints, in 2018, related to Dr. Smith’s
prescribing. As part of that investigation, Board staff asked Dr. Smith if he had any kind of
personal relationship with any other patient, and Dr. Smith falsely answered “No, mmh-mmh.”

Based on standard of care and recordkeeping pertaining to Dr. Smith’s prescribing of
Controlled Dangerous Substances (CDS) to several patients including Patient A and his sexual
relationship with Patient A, the Board and Dr. Smith entered into a Consent Order in 2019 in
which Dr. Smith was reprimanded, permanently prohibited from prescribing CDS, placed on
probation for a year with a referral to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(MPRP), and required to take courses in boundaries and recordkeeping. MPRP referred Dr.
Smith to an assessment program (the “Program”) for a fitness-for-duty evaluation. As part of the
evaluation, Dr. Smith was asked questions related to his treatment of family members and his
sexual relationship with patients. Dr. Smith informed the Program that he had provided medical
care and prescribed medications for his family members and that he had a sexual relationship
while treating Patient B, information that he failed to disclose to the Board during its previous
investigation. The Board requested a written response to his new disclosure that he had a sexual

* This person was in a close quasi-family relationship with Dr. Smith.

3
Respondent committed sexual misconduct in violation of Health Occ. § 1-212 and COMAR
10.32,17.01 ef seq.

7. Panel A imposed sanctions that included the following: a public reprimand;
permanently prohibiting the Respondent from prescribing or dispensing all controlled dangerous
substances (CDS); and imposing probation for a minimum period of one (1) year, subject to
probationary conditions including enrollment in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

. Program (MPRP) and compliance with its directives; and within six (6) months, enrofl in and
successfully complete Board-approved courses in (1) medical recordkeeping and (2) professional
boundaries.

8, The Respondent enrolled in MPRP on November 22, 2019,

9, By email dated December 19, 2019, the Board notified the Respondent that it had
approved courses in medical recordkeeping and professional boundaries that are offered a fi
a

10. By facsimile transmission to the Board dated March 20, 2020, the Respondent
submitled cerlificates from ll that he had completed courses in: medical recordkeeping
(course dates, February 20-21, 2020); and medical ethics, boundaries and professionalism
(course dates, February 27-28, 2020).

ll. As part of his enrollment in MPRP, MPRP referred the Respondent to the

PO Pro gram for a fitness-for-duty evaluation.

12. i conducted its evaluation of the Respondent on March 2-4, 2020.

13, Zz issued a report of its findings, dated July 2, 2020.

14, MPRP referred he report to the Board on August 18, 2020.
1S. By letter dated August 20, 2020, the Board requested that the Respondent provide
aw tten response fo certain disclosures he made during his assessment.

16. By emai] dated August 27, 2020, the Respondent’s legal co unsel forwarded a
letter dated August 27, 2020 from the Respondent, in which the Respondent provided a response
to the allegations raised in the Board’s August 20, 2020, letter.

17. On September 9, 2020, the Board issued a subpoena duces tecum (SDT) to the
Respondent for the medical records of Patient B.*

18. On September 10, 2020, the Respondent responded to the SDT and provided the
medical records for Patient B.

19. On September 28, 2020, the Board received a form titled, Certification of Medical
Records Form, from the Respondent, dated September 26, 2020, in which he certified that he
provided his complete medical records pertaining to Patient B.

20. On September 28, 2020, Board Compliance Analyst Zachary Spivey issued a
Report of Investigation regarding this matter.

21. 9 On November 13, 2020, Panel A issued a document titled, Charges Under the
' Maryland Medical Practice Act, under Case Number 7720-00454, alleging that the Respondent

violated the following: Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in
. the practice of medicine; Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11) Willfully makes or files a false report or
record in the practice of medicine; and (33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation of the
Board or a disciplinary panel. Panel A also charged the Respondent with violating the Board’s

regulations promulgated under Health Occ. § 1-212(a)(1).

 

3 The original stipulation referred to “Paticalll” However, throughout the hearing and in other documents this
person is referred to as “Patient B.” They are the same person and for ease of reference and for confidentiality, they
will be referred to as “Patient B” in this decision.
Having considered all of the evidence presented, I find the following additional facts

by a preponderance of the evidence: .

22. The Consent Order was a result of an investigation of the Respondent pertaining
to questionable distribution of CDS to patients and an inappropriate sexual relationshi ip with a

female patient, Patient A.

23. During i: evaluation of the Respondent, the Respondent revealed that he

had provided medical care and prescribed medication iii: Patient |

provided medical care toffpy prescribing medications for food allergies when they travelled and

treating her lor upper respiratory infections and hay fever. ‘The Respondent is not an allergist. In

1984, the Respondent took a hospital position in Saudi Arabia. Po :
2. ff

re: Respondent provided medical care | for diabetes and hypertension

27, In January 1998, the Respondent began treating Patient B for hypothyroidism

 
 

 

 
   

 

after a referral from Patient B’s primary care physician, Patient B had a mental health history of

“1 will use the first initial to identify | a to in order to protect contidentiality.
7
depression and PTSD, and was in an abusive relationship, all of which she shared with the
Respondent. Early on during treatment, the Respondent learned that he and Patient B shared an
interest in art and a relationshi p began outside the oftice and became sexually intimate for
_ several years while Patient B remained a patient.

28. ‘The Respondent’s medical records regarding Patient B end abruptly in June 2005
with an intent that she would return for care. The Respondent did not terminate the medical
relationship in writing and did not refer Patient B 10 another care provider. The Respondent
continued 10 write refill prescriptions for Patient B over the years as they maintained a
friendship, The Respondent did not keep records of the continuing care.

29. Paticnt B’s medical file that the Respondent produced during the investigation
was not the complete file that the Respondent had maintained as it had been “thinned” in March

2013 because it was too thick.

 

When the prescription ran out, the

Respondent provided prescription refills tfffrctatea to her because it was expensive for
her to see the i The Respondent also prescribed medication for whon they travelled

internationally for such potential conditions as malaria, diarrhea, and molion-sickness and other

medications related to specific places of travel. Po
31. Between January 2017 and June 2018, the Respondent saw Patient A fifteen times

for various health conditions including chronic pain and anxiety. The Respondent prescribed
Patient A oxycodone and benzodiazepines without acquiring her past medical records. During
that timeframe, the Respondent became sexually involved with Patient A, who he would invite
back to his office late at night dr to his home. Due to prostatectomy, the Respondent was
incapable of intercourse.

32, The Respondent did not charge Patient A her for her care visits because he did not
take her insurance. Patient A was forty-six years younger that the Respondent. Patient A
became pregnant and the Respondent wanted to reduce the dosage of her opioids, which angered
her. The relationship between the Respondent and Patient A ended when her fiancée was
released from prison.

33, On January 28, 2019, the Respondent falsely answered “No, mmh-mmh” during
his interview by the Board in relation to its 2018 investigation regarding Patient A when asked if
he ever had any kind of personal relationship with any other patients.

DISCUSSION
Legal Framework

When not otherwise provided by statute or regulation, the standard of proof in a contested
case hearing before the OAH is a preponderance of the evidence, and the burden of proof rests _
on the party making an assertion or a claim. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-217 (2014),
COMAR 28.02.01.21K. To prove an assertion or a claim by a preponderance of the evidence
means to show that it is “more likely so than not so” when all the evidence is considered.
Coleman y. Anne Arundel Cty. Police Dep't, 369 Md. 108, 125 n.16 (2002), In this case, the.
Department bears the burden to show that the Respondent violated the cited provisions of the

applicable law by a preponderance of the evidence. COMAR 28.02,01.21K(1)-(2)(a).
The grounds for reprimand or probation of a licensee, or suspension or revocation of a
license under the Act include the following:

(a) In general, — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the
disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

G) Is guilty of:
-(@) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine;
Gi) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(11) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
medicine;

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board
or a disciplinary panel;
Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (Supp. 2020).
Md. Code-Ann., Health Occ. § 1-212 provides:

(a) Each health occupations board authorized to issue a license or certificate
under this article shall adopt regulations that:

(1) Prohibit sexual misconduct; and

(2) Provide for the discipline of a licensee or certificate holder found to be
guilty of sexual misconduct.

Pursuant to Health Occupations Article section 1-212, the Board promulgated COMAR
10,32.17.5 COMAR 10.32.17.02B defines sexual contact between a physician and patient:
(2) Sexual Impropriety.

(a) “Sexual impropriety” means behavior, gestures, or expressions that are
seductive, sexually suggestive, or sexually demeaning to a patient or key third
party regardless of whether the sexual impropriety occurs inside or outside of a
professional setting.

5 The references to COMAR 10.32.17 are the regulations in effect from 2000 to 2019. The regulations were revised
in 2019, which was subsequent to the actions alleged in this case: Effective date: March 6, 2000 (27:4 Md. R. 454)
_ and amended effective May 20, 2019 (46:10 Md. R. 488).

10
(b) “Sexual impropriety” includes, but is not limited to:

(iii) Using the health care practitioner-patient relationship to initiate or
solicit a dating, romantic, or sexual relationship.

(3) “Sexual misconduct” means a health care practitioner’s behavior toward a
patient, former patient, or key third party, which includes:

(a) Sexual impropriety;
(b) Sexual violence, or
(c) Engaging in a dating, romantic, or sexual relationship which violates the
code of ethics of the American Medical Association. ..or other standard
recognized professional code of ethics of the health care practitioner’s discipline
or specialty,
(4) Sexual Violation
(a) “Sexual violation” means health care practitioner-patient . . . sex whether
or not initiated by the patient . .. and engaging in any conduct with a patient...
that is sexual or may be reasonably interpreted as sexual, regardless of whether
the sexual violation occurs inside or outside a professional setting.
COMAR 10.32.17.03 states.that physicians may not engage in sexual misconduct and that a
violation of Health Occupations Article section 14-404(a)(3)(unprofessional conduct) includes
sexual misconduct,

The Respondent is charged with unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
Therefore, a chronological review of decisions pertaining to “conduct in the practice of
medicine” is instructive. In McDonnell v. Comm’n on Med. Discipline, 301 Md. 426 (1984), the
court concluded that the legislature did not intend for a physician's general moral character to be
subject to sanction, thus, “‘in the practice of medicine” “is directly tied to the physician's conduct
in the actual performance of the practice of medicine, ie., in the diagnosis, care, or treatment of -

patients.” Id. at 436-437 (attempt by physician to intimidate witnesses scheduled to testify

against him at a medical malpractice trial). However, in Board of Physician Quality Assurance

il
y. Banks, 354 Md. 59 (1999), the court rejected Banks’ argument that his sexual harassment of
co-workers during the hours of employment was not immoral or unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, The Banks Court found the physician’s behavior “sufficiently intertwined
with patient care to constitute misconduct in the practice of medicine.” Jd. at 76-77.

In Finucan v. Maryland Board of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577 (2004), the
court affirmed the Board’s action against Finucan for having “used the physician-patient
relationship for purposes of facilitating the engagement of current patients in sexual activities.”
And in Cornféld v. State Board of Physicians, 174 Md. App. 456 (2007), a physician was found
to have committed unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine when he made false
statements to the hospital and Board regarding his conduct during a surgical procedure. Tinally,
in Kim vy. Maryland State Board of Physicians, 423 Md. 523 (2011), the court found that false
information by a physician on his renewal application constituted unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine. Jd. at 547-548.

It is under this framework that the Respondent’s alleged actions are reviewed,

Dr. Ps Testimony
In addition to the documents, statutes, and regulations already cited, the Board presented

the festimony / M.D. who was admitted as an expert in Internal
Medicine, Gastroenterology, and Professional Ethics. Dr. mi initially board certified to
practice in 1989 but stopped seeing patients in 2014, Dr. i is currently employed by the
Board as its Physician Consultant, the only physician employed by the Board, and has been in

this role since April 2015. She served as a member of the Board fiom 1999 to 2003. Her

Curriculum Vitae is Board Bxhibit 13.

12
pr testified that she was asked to review the Respondent's case for the Board
following the report fron Dr. BM has never met the Respondent but reviewed his
history with the Board, the [J Fitness for Duty evaluation, and the exhibits subtnitied by the
Board. Dr. BB ce viewed an incident from 2015 when the Respondent was being investigated
by the ‘Board after a complaint by a veterinarian that the Respondent had issued a fraudulent
prescription for a cat by using the name lO The Respondent received an advisory
letter. Dr. esti Hed that, in 2016, the Respondent received another advisory letter for
prescribing CDS to an active addict without monitoring him through urine analysis and
toxicology screening.

ov also reviewed the 2018 complaints that led to the 2019 Consent Decree. She
became involved with the subsequent investigation that arose from the Respondent’s interview at
a where he revealed that he provided medical treatment to po
and had a sexual relationship with Patient B. Di described why these physician-patient
relationships demonstrated serious boundary violations because they involved trust, knowledge,
emotion, and influence and resulted in sexual misconduct under COMAR 10.32.17.03,
particularly as to Patient A and Patient B.
| Dr rotea that the Respondent showed i ghorance and a lack of understanding of his
fiduciary role in the doctor-patient relationship in that he believed that the doctor-patient
relationship and the sexual relationship with a paticnt were two completely separate things. ‘The
Respondent expressed during his Board interview in January 2019 that he had a “friendly
personal relationship” with Patient A and when pressed further about the sexual nature of the

relationship the Respondent stated he did not think it was appropriate for the Board to “pry into

13
personal matters.” (Bd. Ex. 2, at p. 13, Transcript, >. 42.)6 J or Bi eestitica that this perception
that the Respondent “can take off his white coat, exit the office, and then have sex with a’ patient
and {the] two are totally unrelated. ..is incongruous and concerning.” (Transcript, p. 43.) Dr.
|| expressed concerns that the Respondent’s responses in the Board interview demonstrated
that he did not consider the potential negative impact of a sexual relationship on the patient and
the power dynamic that the physician exercises over a patient. This was further developed in the
iz Report that was reviewed by Da Dri estified thal the Respondent’s
assessments indicated that he liked to be assertive and in control and presented as “dominant,
forceful, and socially ascendent,” with “narcissistic personality traits.” (Transcript, p. 52; Bd.
Ex. 4, PP. 48, 51.)
Dr. SEB noted that the Respondent had just completed a boundaries and ethics course at
| to going mC and in the self-response boundary assessment, the
Respondent scored “0” which meant that he had answered all twenty-five questions related to
actions considered potential boundary violations as “never” (Transcript, pp. 52-53.) pr
testified that because the Respondent had already acknowledged the sexual relationship with
Patient A prior to this assessment, it demonstrated that he “disassociates from [his| fiduciary role
as'a physician.” (Transcript, p. 54.) She testified that the Respondent did not put his patients’
well-being first, but fulfilled his own self-interest by pursuing sexual relationships with Patient A
and B.
In reviewing Patient B’s medical records provided by the Respondent (Bd. Ex. 7), Dr.
| a it significant that Palient B presented with a history of depression in January 1998
and that her depression, PTSD, and spousal abuse were noted in the record. She noted that there
was only one report early on to Patient B’s primary care physician despite Patient B sceing the

® References to “Transcript” are for the transcript created from this June 8, 2021 hearing,
relationship while treating Patient B, which Dr. Smith provided. Thereafter the Board opened an
investigation and subpoenaed Patient B’s medical records. After completing the investigation,
on November 13, 2020, Panel A issued charges.

EXCEPTIONS

Dr. Smith raises five arguments in his exceptions. Dr. Smith argues that: (1) the State did
not provide adequate notice of the allegations against him; (2) the AMA Opinion 8.19 does not
prohibit prescribing to family members in situations such as this; (3) Patient B was a former
patient and there is no prohibition on sexual relationships with former patients; (4) he did not
mislead the Board when he answered that he had not had a sexual relationship with patients
whom he was treating; and (5) the Program deemed him fit to practice, so the Board should
allow him to continue to practice medicine.

1. The State’s Notice was Adequate.

Dr. Smith first argues that the State failed to give sufficient notice of the allegations
against him prior to the hearing. Dr. Smith states that at the OAH hearing, the State referenced
“unrelated prior interactions with the Board that did not result in charges.” Dr. Smith does not
specifically describe what interactions he is referring to, but the State’s response explains that he
appears to be referring to the State’s expert’s testimony about two instances where Dr. Smith was
investigated and received advisory letters, but was not charged with violating the Medical
Practice Act. Dr. Smith also argues that he was not given sufficient notice related to his
treatment of Patient B’s husband while he was having a sexual relationship with Patient B.’

First, Dr. Smith has waived these arguments because he did not object to the discussion
of the advisory letters or his treatment of Patient B’s husband at OAH. “Ifa party fails to object,

> The State did not raise this issue in its case in chief, rather this was information provided by Dr. Smith
during cross-examination by the State.
Respondent until at least June 2005 and the records abruptly end with no discharge letter and

with the plan that the patient will return for future care. pr. ii noted this was a clear

indication that the doctor-patient relationship was not terminated. (Transcript, pp. 55-60.) Dr.
ME esiivica that the patient record, the ia report, and the Respondent’s letter to the Board
(Bd. Ex. 7) demonstrate that the Respondent had an ongoing sexual relationship with Patient B
that began in the doctor-patient context when the parties discussed art duting medical visits,
which led to a relationship outside the office that developed into a sexual relationship while
Patient B remained an active patient. Dr sated that in her expert apinion, the Respondent
“engaged in sexual misconduct with Patient B and that represents unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine.” (Transcript, p. 60.)

Dr. discussed how the Respondent's actions were a clear violation of the American
Medical Association (AMA) Cade of Medical Ethics and related Opinions. Dr. RR reviewed
the three AMA Ethical Opinions submitted by the Board: Opinion 8.19 — SelfTreatment.or
Treatment of Immediate Family Members (id. Ex. 10); Opinion 1.2.1 — Related to Boundaries -
Self-T'reatment or Treatment of Immediate Family Members (Bd. Ex. 11); Opinion 9.1.1 —
Romantic or Sexual Relationships with Patients (Bd. Ex. 12).

Opinion 9,1,1 (3d. Ex, 12) states:

_ Romantic or sexual interactions between physicians and patients that concurrently

occur with the patient physician relationship are unethical, Such interactions

detract from the goals of the patient-physician relationship and may exploit the

vulnerability of the patient, compromise the physician’s ability to make objective

Judgements about the patient’s health care, and ultimately be detrimental to the

patient’s well-being.

A physician must terminate the patient-physician relationship before initi ating a
dating, romantic, or sexual relationship with a patient.

Likewise, sexual or romantic relationships between a physician and a former
patient may be unduly influenced by the previous physician-patient rel ationship.

1S
Sexual or romantic relationships with former patients are unethical if the
physician uses or exploits trust, knowledge, emotions, or influence derived from
the previously professional relationship, or if a romantic relationship would
otherwise foreseeably harm the individual.

In keeping with a physician’s ethical obligations to avoid inappropriate behavior,
a physician who has reason to believe that nonsexual, nonclinical contact with a

patient may be perccived as or may lead to romantic or sexual contact should
avoid such contact,

Dr BBB applicd this ethical opinion to the Respondent’s case and testified that it was
clear that Patient B was in a trusting relationship with the Respondent because she saw him for at
least eighteen patient visits. She noted that the Respondent had specific knowledge of details
regarding Patient B’s mental health and personal issues which made her vulnerable. The
Respondent stated in his letter to the Board (Bd. Ex. 6) that he ant Patient B became friends first
then developed a sexual relationship, indicating an emotional attachment. Dr BM opines that °
the Respondent wielded influence over Patient B due to the power dif ferential which he could
exploit. (Transcript, p. 65.) pr i noted that even if Patient B was a willing participant or
even initiated the sexual relationship, it would stil! constitute an ethical violation by the
Respondent. (Transcript, p. 67.) She further noted that even if Patient 8 was no longer being
treated by the Respondent at the time they began a sexual relationship, it was still an ethical
violation. (Transcript, pp. 75-76, 79.) mm testified that due to her mental health history
and her abusive spouse, Patient B was vulnerable to manipulation by the Respondent and less
likely to report the abuse by the Respondent for fear of her husband. (Transcript, p. 109.) Dr.
HEE opines that harm to Patient B was foreseeable due to the vulnerability of her mental state
and the volatility of her marriage, causing breach of trust and damage to Patient B’s self-
contidence that could prevent her from seeking further medical care from another doctor.

(Transcript, pp. 112-13.)

16
On cross-examination Dr vas asked about AMA Opinion 8.19. Opinion 8.19
states that physicians generally should not treat members of their immediate family because
“professional objectivity” and “medical judgment” can be compromised by the physician's
personal feelings. It may be uncomfortable for the physician “to probe sensitive areas when
taking the history” or perform a full intimate examination, and the patient may not disclose
“sensitive information” or want to undergo “intimate examination” because of the familial
relationship. Physicians “may be inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or
training.” Tensions could arise in the professional and personal relationship if there is a
“negative medical outcome.” “Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent” may
result in the patient not seeking a second opinion or going forward with a procedure so as not to
offend the family member. Similarly, the physician “may feel obligated to provide care to a
family member...” There are exceptions for an “emergency” or “isolated settings” where uo
other qualified physician is available, or some “situations in which routine care is acceptable for
short-term, minor problems,” (Bd. Ex. 10.)

or. indicated that there is no absolute prohibition of a physician providing care to a .
family member, but that it is restricted to emergencies and short-term situations. She also noted
that.she was not provided ve TE :-3:¢2: records, nor the
Respondent’s prescription records, if any records existed, so she was not fully aware of the
extent of the care provided and could not render an expert opinion regarding a violation of AMA
Opinion 8.19. .

However, orf was called in rebuttal and based on the Respondent's own testimony

regarding the care and treatinent he provided for particularly, Dr. | | opined that

this constituted a boundary violation and was unprofessional conduct Po

17
Po the care was not brief or of an emergency nature, and because it is a

loved one, the physician could lack objectivity and the patient could withhold sensitive

information. (Transcript, p. 196.)

Dr. BB ais. considered the treatment offffto be an unprofessional conduct boundary

prescribing medication outside his field, as he was not im” Dr testisiea that the

| track medication and monitor the patient with other tests and there was no
evidence to demonstrate that the Respondent provided the necessary care outside of prescribing:
medication (/d.)

Dr. iso stated that the Respondent does not have insight into his boundary
violations and that treating Patient B’s husband while he was in a sexual relationship with Patient.
B was “an extraordinary boundary violation.” (Transcript, p. 197.)

Respondent’s Testimony

The Respondent testified in his own behalf. He described his medical training and his
specialties in endocrinology and internal medicine. The Respondent indicated that his current

patient population comes from “all parts of society, medical assistance to the well-heeled.”

(Transcript, p. 121.)®

The Respondent agreed that he provided medical care to Pe

describing the care he provided for each. The Respondent provided medical care to |

Zz by prescribing medications for a serious food allergy related to mustard thal

? This issue was not among the charges as the Board was not aware of this patient until the Respondent mentioned it
at the hearing. (Transcript, p. 187-90.)

§ The Transcript show the end of this statement as “inaudible,” my notes reflect the Respondent's quote.

18
nianifested while they were travelling in Turkey, and the Respondent prepared medications to
tread for food allergies on about six foreign vacations fl did not see an allergist and relied on

the Respondent for her allergy medications, The Respondent rreatedfiftor upper respiratory

infections and hay fever, as well. (Transcript, pp. 122, 145-147.)
The Respondent testified that he provided medical treatment iii for

diabetes and. hypertension, and that he continues

to treaff currentiy by providing prescriptions, (Transcript, pp. 122, 149).°

 
 

The Respondent testified that at one point ran out of medication and could

not afford to iii. so the Respondent renewed hei nedication and

continued to do that when her prescription ran out. The Respondent also prescribed medications
when they travelled to the Amayon and Galapagos for prevention of malaria, diarrhea, and
motion sickness (Transcript, pp. 151-52,) The Respondent also admitted to writing a
prescription ins name for her cat because the vet prescription was much more expensive for
the same medicine. (Transcript, p, 153.)

The Respondent testified that he voluntarily submitted to an interview before the Board
in January 2019 related to the Board’s investigation of the 2018 complaints and. responded to
questioning xegarding Patient A. The Respondent stated that he and the Board entered a Consent
Decree and the Respondent agreed to no longer prescribe CDS and also agreed to attend courses
on medical record keeping and professional boundaries, which he completed. The Respondent

testified that he has been participating in the MPRP since November 2019. The Respondent

The Respondent was inconsistent in his testimony regarding when she developed hypertension and diabetes and

19
described the 3-day program that he attended a and the evaluators who assessed him. He
stated that they asked many questions about Patient B that he “was not expecting to discuss” at
the time, so his answers were “off the cuff” without- having the benefit of his patient records.
(Transcript, p. 128.) ‘

The Respondent testified that Patient B first became his patient in 1998 and remained a
patient until June 2005, when her medical condition resolved. “Following that, by mutual
agreement, we transferred from a previous doctor-patient relationship to a personal relationship,
which [was] initiated in mutual interest in art that was the catalyst, that made us interested in
each other...” (Transcript, p. 130.) ‘he Respondent claimed that he never saw Patient B again
as a patient after the medical records ended in June 2005. ‘The Respondent testified that he and
-Patient B began to “socialize” within “a month, or two or three” after June 2005. (Transcript, p.
132.)

The Respondent explained that Patient B came to see him as a referral from her primary
care physician for treatment of hypothyroidism. He denied prescribing medications or treating
Patient B for depression, although he did suggest to her that it could be related to her ongoing
complaints. The Respondent did send an initial report in 1998 to Patient B’s primary care
physician, but was unable to confirm if other reports were sent. The Respondent testified that on
the last visit in June 2005, Patient B expressed that she had no complaints and was completely
satisfied with her treatment. (Iranscript, p. 136.) When asked if he exploited Patient B with the
knowledge he had based on his treatment, the Respondent denicd it. The Respondent denied that
he needed to send Patient B a formal discharge letter because he was seeing her as a consultant

not a primary physician.

20
On cross-examination, the Respondent was asked whether in his thirty or forty years as a
medical professor or chairing a department he ever had a situation where a physician under his '
supervision had an inappropriate relationship with a patient, to which he replied, “Not that I can
recall.” (Transcript, p. 143.) When asked if he was aware that the Board had instituted
regulations regarding sexual misconduct in 2000, the Respondent replied, “I’m aware of that
now,” but also indicated he did not recall ever seeing the information until this case arose.
(Transcript, p. 144.)

The Respondent was asked about Patient A who he began seeing as a patient in 2017. He
admitted to prescribing an opioid for chronic pain and benzodiazepines for post-traumatic
arthritis. The Respondent testified that the sexual relationship began after Patient A came to him
seeking help because her fiancé was jailed, she was alone, and she did not know how to handle
her responsibilities. They had dinner together and Patient A expressed that she was looking for
affection, which the Respondent obliged. The Respondent stated that, “I did not allow our
relationship as developing friends to cloud or interfere [with] the medical relationship.”
(Transcript, p. 155.) When asked specifically if the Respondent believed he could have a sexual .
relationship with a patient as long as it did not interfere with the professional relationship the
Respondent stated, “ [w]ell that was certainly my intention, to keep the two separate and I think I
did, But I understand that in spite of that, the regulations are very negative in this respect.”
(Transcript, p. 157.)

The Respondent also revealed during cross-examination that he saw Patient B’s husband
as a patient for a diabetes consultation during the same time frame that he and Patient B were
sexually involved. (Transcript, p. 188.) Patient B brought her husband to see the Respondent,

and when questioned about this, he stated, “[i]t was not unprofessional.” (Id.)

21
The Respondent admitted to boundary violations in nis assessment. When
questioned at the hearing he stated that he admitted boundary violations as 10 Patient A, and did
not know abou or Patient B, stating “I don’t know what the final opinion is
on family care. I understand that it is common. I think it is productive, successful in my case. 1
don’t think there is anything wrong with it.” (Transcript, p. 190.)

‘Analysis

This is a rather unique scenario as the parties basically agrce on the facts. The
Respondent did not deny that he provided medical treatment iii
and that he had sexual relationships with two patients, Patient A and Patient B. In fact, these
patient relationships were revealed by the Respondent himself during his three-day analysis
session i. .

The issue that the Respondent did contest most fervently was the timing of his
relationship with Patient B. The Board contends that Patient B was an active patient of the
Respondent when the sexual relationship began, the Respondent claimed the doctor-patient
relationship terminated before the sexual relationship began.

The Respondent sought to have Dr. i: expert testimony discounted because she is an.
employee of the Board and it was upon her advice that the Board charged the Respondent.
However, I find that Dr. Fs position makes her uniquely qualified, particularly in medical
ethics, to provide expert opinion testimony regarding violations since this is her a Jarge part of
her daily profession. Her analysis and testimony were well-supported by the record, Expert
witnesses regularly testify before the OAH on behalf of the agency where they are employed.

‘Therefore, 1 find that Dr. a: testimony was worthy of consideration and weight.

22
Patient B

‘The Board relied on statements made by the Respondent to | and in a letter to
“the Board as they related to Patient B. During his EEE eamination, the

Respondent indicated that “[Patient B] was a patient of [the Respondent] in 2000. Their
relationship tured into a sexual relationship in 2005 and continued until 2007 while she was still
a patient of his.” (Bd. Ex. 4, p. 50.) Upon receipt of che report, the Board. requested that
the Respondent provide a written response regarding his admission of having a sexual
relationship with Patient B and requested an explanation as to why he had not disclosed this
relationship during his January 2019 Board interview." (Bd: fix. 5, p 50.)

The Respondent’s excuse for not disclosing the Patient B relationship to the Board -
Interviewer was that he understood the question to apply only to “contemporancous cvents and

relationships.” Ba. Ex, 6, p. 58.) The Respondent continued:

“With regard to [Patient 13], she first appeared as a patient with hypothyroidism in
my office, in about 2000. Shortly thereafler it became apparent that she and I
shared a broad interest in art, and a platonic friendship evolved on that basis. Five
years later, we also had an occasional intimate relationship that extended over
about two years, ending without emotional drama, 1 continued to see her
occasionally as a patient thereafter, and even now, when she is no longer a
patient, we contiie to remain on cordial terms. As { described, my best
interpretation of my answer to the Board’s investigators was that I was in the

mindset of the contemporary period. My relationship with [Patient B] was 13-15
years ago. ‘

(Bd. Ex. 6, p. 59.)
At the hearing the Respondent testified that Patient B stopped being his patient on June
23, 2005 and that there was a “line in the sand, there in 2005, the last visit, and then following

that I’m not exactly sure how long, a month or two or three, we began to socialize.” (Transcript
8 ip 2

 

0 The Interviewer asked, “Did you ever huve any kind of personal relationship with any other pationts you were
treating?” The Respondent replied, “No.”

23
. p. 132.) The Respondent later testified that on that last visit, Patient B had achieved a good
result, “had no complaints and felt completely satisfied with the result of her treatment.”
_ (Transcript, p. 136)

I do not find the Respondent’s testimony credible. His two prior statements indicate that
a relationship outside the office began to develop almost immediately between the Respondent
and Patient B over their mutual interest in art. The Respondent’s own statements support that a
sexual relationship with Patient B occurred while she was a patient. He claimed that it was not
until he went through Patient B’s medical records that he was able to see when the doctor-patient
relationship stopped and the romantic relationship began. This statement appears to be
, inconsistent with the facts and self-serving, It is also not supported by Patient B’s June 23, 2005
medical record which shows no indication that she had reached “completely satisfactory results”
and ended treatment. In fact, the Respondent sent Patient B for lab work and advised her to
return in four months. (Bd. Ex. 7, p. 109.)

Furthermore, even if I weré to accept that June 23, 2005 was the last time the Respondent
saw Patient B in his office, the Respondent admitted that he continued to provide her with
treatment through prescriptions for years during and after their sexual relationship and failed to
document it in her medical records. The Respondent also admitted that Patient B’s file had been
“thinned” and no longer contained “every piece of paper.” (Transcript, p. 161-62.) In addition,

: the Respondent admitted to having a romantic relationship with Patient B within three months of
her June 2005 appointment, hardly a vast separation of time. Further, Patient B’s records do not

demonstrate that the physician-patient relationship was terminated.

24
‘he will not later be heard to complain that the evidence should not have been admitted.’” Rosov
v. Maryland State Bd. of Dental Exam’rs, 163 Md. App. 98, 112 (2005) (quoting Ginn v. Farley,
43 Md. App. 229, 236-37 (1979)). See also Swoboda v. Wilder, 173 Md. App. 615, 641 (2007)
(“the Protestants did not object to the testimony of [the witness] and therefore waived their
objection to the Board’s consideration of it”); Maryland Rule 4-323 (“An objection to the
admission of evidence shall be made at the time the evidence is offered or as soon thereafter as
the grounds for objection become apparent. Otherwise the objection is waived.”). Based on Dr.
Smith’s failure to object during the hearing at OAH, the Panel finds that he has waived any
claims regarding insufficient notice regarding the advisory letters and the testimony regarding
treatment of Patient B’s husband. |

Even if the Panel considered these arguments, the Panel would find that the State
complied with the necessary requirements for notice. The standards for notice are set forth in
State Gov’t § 10-207, which states that an “agency shall give reasonable notice of the agency’s
action,” and the notice shall, among other things “state concisely and simply the facts that are
asserted” or “the issues that are involved.” State Gov’t § 10-207(a)(b)(1)(i) & (ii). In Reed y.
Baltimore, 323 Md. 175, 184 (1991), the Court held that the notice requirement should be “in
sufficient detail to enable the [party] to marshal evidence and arguments in defense of the
assertions.” In Regan v. Board of Chiropractic Examiners, 355 Md. 397, 420 (1997), the Court
of Appeals explained that the “gist of the charges” has to mirror the “gist of the Board’s
findings.”

Here, the Board’s finding of a violation is not based on the advisory letters and the
treatment of Patient B’s husband. Rather, Dr. Smith was found in violation due to his

prescribing to family members, his sexual relationship with Patient B, and his false statement
Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 9.1. discusses the concerns of a relationship with a

former patient:

A physician must terminate the patient-physician relationship before initiating a
dating, romantic, or sexual relationship with a patient.

Likewise, sexual or romantic relationships between a physician and a former
patient may be unduly influenced by the previous physician-patient relationship.
Sexual or romantic relationships with former patients are unethical if the
physician uses or exploits trust, knowledge, emotions, or influence derived from

the previously professional relationship, or if a romantic relationship would
otherwise foreseeably harm. the individual.

(Bd. Ex. 12.)

Dr. Bhestities that based on Patient B’s history of depression, PTSD, and spousal
abuse, all of which were known to the Respondent, coupled with the cultivation of a relationship
surrounding a mutual interest in art beginning early in the doctor-patient relationship, the
Respondent exploited the trust, knowledge, and cmotions of Patient B that all developed from the
doctor-patient relationship. Dr. aso opined that harm was foresceable because of Patient
B’s mental health concerns and volatile home situation.

De, | ie that Patient B’s records provide no indication that in June 2005 Patient B
was cured (as suggested by the Respondent), or that the physician-patient relationship
terminated. The Respondent did not provide a termination letter, did not refer Patient B to
another provider, did not send a final letter to her primary care physician, and admitted to
continuing to treat ber with prescriptions after that time.

Even if I were to accept that Patient B became a “former patient” in June 2005, the
initiation of a sexual relationship within three months of that time, afler treating Patient B for
seven years, should have been recognized by the Respondent as inappropriate and foreseeably

harmful to Patient B based on her social-emotional history.

nN
an
I find that the Respondent perpetrated unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
for sexual impropriety and misconduct as to Patient B in violation of Health Occupations Article
section 14-404(a)(3)(ii); COMAR 10.32.17.02B; COMAR 10.32,17.03; See alyo, Finucan y.
Maryland Bd. of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577 (2004).”"

Treatment of Family ° -

The Respondent made clear that he found no problem with eotine
since that is “common” practice. He even went ‘0 far as to say, “I’m not aware of the opinion on
family care. I understand that itis common. I think it is productive, successful in my case. I
don’t think there’s anything wrong with it.’’ (Transcript, p. 190.) While the Respondent
testified that he wo uld avoid it in the future, his testimony lacks any understanding as to why it
was concerning or how he may have compromised the care of his loved ones,

Opiition 1.2.1 discusses the conflicts related to a physician treating themselves or.a
family member. While generally reiterating the concern stated in Opinion 8.19, it sets forth the
limited circumstances where a physician may treat a family member but also requires that the
physician document the treatment and provide relevant information to the patient’s primary care
physician:

In general, physicians should not treat themselves or members of their own
families. However, it may be acceptable to do so in limited circumstances:

(a) In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no other qualified
physician available. In such situations, physicians should not hesitate to treat
themselves or family menibers unti] another physician becomes available.

(b) For short term, minor problems.
When treating self or family members, physicians have further responsibility to:

4 While the Respondent’s actions do not rise to the extreme level of those demonstrated by Dr. Finucan, the
violation is nonetheless the same.

26
(c) Document treatment or care provided and convey relevant information to the
patient’s primary care physician.

(d) Recognize that if tensions develop in the professional relationship with a
family member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such

difficulties may be carried over into the family member’s personal
relationship with the physician.

(e) Avoid providing sensitive or intimate care especially for a minor patient who
is uncomfortable being treated by a family member.

(f) Recognize the family members may be reluctant to state their preference for
another physician or decline a recommendation for fear of offending the
physician.

(Bd. Ex. 11)

While the Respondent’s treatment iii was within his ficld, the

treatment of cre not. The Respondent described thai had a severe allergic reaction
when they were traveling in ‘lurkey which he attributed to mustard. Rather than have her
assessed by an allergist, the Respondent (ok it upon himself to treaiffs severe food allergies
whenever they travelled. Similarly, the Respondent took it upon himself to take over the care of
i. despite not being aS The Respondent testified that he refilled
" medication that had previously been prescribed iii rather than pay for her to see
br i noted that the Respondent treated family members’ conditions outside his field

and may not have provided the proper testing and follow-up required. The seriousness offs

condition was particularly disturbing. And while the Respondent treatedfffor chronic

” The Respondent testified that he prescribed

a

E: medications when they ran out because she could not afford to see

27
compromised the physician-patient relationship, the independence off. making advised health
‘decisions, and the Respondent’ s objectivity.

Clearly the Respondent did not take into consideration AMA Opinion 8.19 or 1.2.1 (Bd.
Exs. 10 and 11) regarding treatment of family members, as he freely acknowledged that he was
unaware of ihe existence of these ethical opinions until the charges were filed. He testified that
he continues to see nothing wrong with treating family members and his demeanor throughout
the hearing demonstrated a lack of concern or understanding why his actions posed possible
harm or conflicts. In fact, the Respondent testified that in his boundary course the
presenter shared that even he was guilty of boundary violations, and the Respondents takeaway
was that they were common and unavoidable. Despite that acknowledgement, the Respondent
stated that he would not have any more boundary violations in the future. This statement rang
hollow based. on the Respondent’s own testimony throughout the hearing which lacked
understanding of his wrongdoing or insight into how it impacted his family members’ care,

I find that the Respondent violated the law regarding unprofessional conduct in the

practice of medicine for providing care and treatment ii: violation of

Health Occupations Article section 14-404(a)(3)(ii); See also, AMA Opinions 8.19 and 1.2.1
(Bd. Exs, 10 and 11).

False Report and Failure to Cooperate

Pursuant to Health Occupations Article section 14-404, a physician may be disciplined
for:

(a1) Willfully makfing] or filfing] a false report or record in the practice
of medicine;

28
(33) Failfing] to cooperate with a:lawful investigation conducted by the Board
or a disciplinary panel;

Md. Code Ann., Health Occ, § 14-404(a) (Supp. 2020).

In bringing this charge, the Board relied on the Respondent’s testimony given under oath
in his interview bythe Board related to the 2018 charge regarding Patient A. During that
interview, the Respondent was asked “Did you ever have any kind of personal relationship with
any other patients you were treating?” The Respondent replied, “No, mmh-mmh,” (Bd, Ex. 2, p.
16.) It is the Board’s position that this was untruthful and meant to deceive as the Respondent
clearly provided care iii: Patient B, and the Respondent had a
personal and sexual relationship with all four,

The Respondents position was that he did not understand the question to mean “at any
lime” but thought it was contemporaneous with the interview.

It is clear based on the interview, that the Respondent's answer to this question
was untrue, ‘The Respondent’s explanation that he misunderstood the question is not credible. Tt
is clear throughout the interview that the Respondent has contempt for the process and does not
think the Board should be prying into his personal relationships, despite the fact that the inquiry
involved sexual impropriety with Patient A. It was a serious situation rel ating to the
Respondents future ability to practice medicine and the Respondent was required to be
forthcoming, The Respondent failed. The interview was provided as part of a lawful
investigation related to the Respondent’s practice of medicine.

In Cornfeld v. State Board of Physicians, 174 Md. App. 456 (2007), and Kim v. Maryland
State Board of Physicians, 423 Md, 523 (201 1), the court found unprofessional conduct in the |
practice of medicine where a physician supplied false information to the Board related to theit

actions as a physician. And while the false information in this case is the result of a singular

29
statement by the Respondent, the Board is correct that the response weighed heavily on its
determination related to the 201 8 charges.

T find that the Respondent willfully provided false information and interfered with the
lawful investigation of the Board by providing an untruthful answer to a crucial question while
under oath in violation of Health Occupations Article sections 14-404(a)( 11) and (33).
Sanctions
In this case, the Board has stated that it secks to impose the disciplinary sanction of revocation,
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (Supp. 2020); COMAR 10.32.02.09A, B(6); COMAR
10.32.02.10, Mitigating and aggravating factors may be included in the sanction determination,
COMAR 10.32.02.09B(1). The Respondent offered no mitigating factors into evidence,
COMAR 10.32.02.09 B(6) sets forth aggravating factors that may include, but are not limited to:

(a) The offender has a previous criminal ot administrative disciplinary history;
(b) The offense was committed deliberately or with gross negligence or recklessness;

(c) The offense had the potential for or actually did cause patient harm;

(d) The offense was part of a pattern of detrimental conduct;

(g) ‘The patient was especially vulnerable,
(h) The offender attempted to hide the error or misconduct from patients or others;

(i) The offender concealed, falsified or destroyed evidence, or presented false testimony or
evidence;
@) The offender did not cooperate with the investigation; ...

‘As previously noted, the concealment by the Respondent of his providing care while in

relationships with Patient iii led the Board to impose a less stringent

sanction in a prior discipline, believing it was an isolated incident. Had the Respondent

cooperated fully with the prior investigation, the Board would have learned that the

30
Respondent’s personal relationships with paticnts was a pattern that foresecably could cause
harm to his patients duc to their vulnerability and the trust they placed in the Respondent,
Furthermore, the Board would have had knowledge that the Respondent provided care to his
family members outside the area of his expertise, which could have been deemed reckless or
negligent.

The Respondent has shown little insight into the severity of his actions. He stated that he
provided “successful” care to his family members and saw nothing “wrong with if,” even after
taking the boundary course. He justified the sexual relationship with Patient B stating he “drew
a line in the sand” between the patient and personal relationship, at the same time testifying he
was unaware of the regulation prohibiting such a relationship.

‘The Respondent argued that revocation was too harsh a sanction for things that occurred
so many years ago and | recommended particular oversight that would allow the
Respondent to be fit for cantinued practice including: ongoing MPRP oversight and support;
psychotherapeutic therapy regarding boundaries and personal psychotherapy; chaperones with all
female patients in his office; disclosure of his boundary difficulties to his office staff; and annual
polygraph examinations, among others. Respondent also argued that there is. no absolute
prohibition to treating family members and no evidence that the Respondent provided care below
the standard of care.

The Board countered that the Respondent demonstrated a “plethora of boundary
violations” and used information derived from his professional relationship to develop sexual
relationships with two patients. The Respondent should have foreseen the potential harm to both
these patients as well as to his family members. The Respondent’s role in these relationships

“was to provide care to his patients, not to provide pleasure for himself.
The Respondent failed to ever acknowledge wrongdoing or understanding that what he
did was unethical. He believed he could compartmentalize his personal from his professional.
‘He admitted that he did not keep up with the updates to regulations. And although his
misbehavior may have begun many years ago and gone unnoticed, most of the improprieties
continued throughout the last twenty years while COMAR 10.32.17, prohibiting sexual
misconduct with patients, was in existence.

The Board has provided substantial justification for its recommendation and the
appropriate sanction is revocation of licensure. Md. Code Ann., Health Oce, §. 14-404(a) (Supp.
2020), COMAR 10.32.02.09A, B(6); COMAR 10.32.02.10.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated the alleged provisions of the law. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§ 1-212; Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (11), and (13) (2014 and Supp. 2020),
COMAR 10.32.17.03. Asa result, I conclude that the Respondent is subject to disciplinary
sanction of revocation for the cited violations. Id., COMAR 10.32.02.09A, B(6).
PROPOSED DISPOSITION .
I PROPOSE that charges filed by the Maryland State Board of Physicians against the
Respondent on November 13 2020 be UPHELD; and
J PROPOSE that the Respondent be sanctioned with revocation of his medical licensure..
Signature on
File

August 30, 2021

Date Decision Issued Willis Gunther Baker
Administrative Law Judge

WGB/cj

#193467

32
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

 

. Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may file written exceptions with
the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the captioned

. case Lo the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), and request a hearing on the exceptions.
Md, Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-216(a) (2014); COMAR 10.32.02.05. Exceptions must be
filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order. COMAR
10.32,02.05B(1). The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary
Panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 2 1215- 2299, Atta:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director.

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attorney, and the other party
will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response addressed as
above, Jd. The disciplinary panel will issue a final order following the exceptions hearing or
other formal panel proceedings. Md. Code Ann., Stale Gov’t §§ 10-216, 10-221 (2014);
COMAR 10.32.02,05C. The OAT is not a party to any review process.

Copies Mailed To:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director Nicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel

Compliance Administration Health Occupations Prosecution and

Maryland Board of Physicians : Litigation Division

4201 Patterson Avenue Office of the Attorney General

Baltimore, MD 21215 300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201

Robert Gilbert, Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor

Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Suite 207
Baltimore, MD 21201

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer
Health Occupations Prosecution, and
Litigation Division

Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201

John T. Sly, Esquire
Waranch & Brown

1301 York Road, Suite 300 -
Lutherville, MD 21093

_ R, - M.D. .
that he had not previously had a sexual relationship with any other patients. The advisory letter
and the related allegations were only mentioned in the ALJ’s proposed decision in the summary
of the State’s expert’s testimony and never discussed again. Similarly, Dr. Smith’s statement
during cross-examination that he treated Patient B’s husband only merited a passing mention in a
summary of Dr. Smith’s testimony, and was not the basis for the ALJ’s proposed findings. None
of these facts formed the basis for any of the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact, analysis, or
sanction sections, and they are not considered in the Panel’s analysis in this Order.

The central thrust or “gist” of the ALJ’s analysis below and the Panel’s analysis herein
concerns Dr. Smith’s treatment of family members, his sexual relationship with Patient B, and
the false statements he made during his Board interview. Certainly, the “gist” of the Panel’s
findings reflect the “gist” of charges. See Regan, 355 Md. at 420. Dr. Smith has been given
more than sufficient notice to be able to marshal a defense on those grounds. Reed, 323 Md. at
177. The Panel, therefore, denies Dr. Smith’s exception regarding insufficient notice.

2. Dr. Smith Inappropriately Prescribed to Family Members.

Dr. Smith treated three family members, one inside his field of expertise and two outside
his practice specialty. The Board’s regulations state that “the disciplinary panels may consider
the Principles of Ethics of the American Medical Association.” COMAR 10.32.02.16. The
American Medical Association (“AMA”) Code of Medical Ethics’ Opinion on Physicians
Treating Family Members (Opinion 8.19) and the AMA’s Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 1.2.1
were admitted into evidence and considered by the State’s expert in reaching her conclusion that
Dr. Smith’s conduct was unprofessional.

Ethics Opinion 1.2.1 states “[ijn general, physicians should not treat . . . members of their

own families.” The opinion notes that physicians may treat family members “fi]n emergency
settings or isolated settings where there is no other qualified physician available” and for “short
term, minor problems.” Particularly relevant here, the opinion discussed how physicians “may
also be inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training.”

In his exception, Dr. Smith argues that there is no total prohibition for prescribing to
family members and that AMA Opinion 8.19 provides circumstances where physicians may care
for family members. Dr. Smith claims that he cared for his family members in limited
circumstances, such as overseas travel, and that he caused them no harm.

The ALJ found, however, and the Panel agrees, that Dr. Smith treated his family outside
of the AMA’s limited permissible exceptions for treating family members.

Family Member | had an allergic reaction, which Dr. Smith believed was a food allergy.
Rather than have her assessed by an allergist, Dr. Smith routinely prescribed allergy medications
prior to travel and Family Member 1 depended on Dr. Smith to provide the medication. Dr.
Smith’s treatment of Family Member | was not an emergency situation or for a short-term
problem and his treatment was outside Dr. Smith’s medical expertise.

Dr. Smith also routinely treated Family Member 2 for diabetes and hypertension, which
are chronic problems of long-term duration, not short-term, minor problems.

Finally, Dr. Smith treated Family Member 3 outside his area of expertise for a serious
medical condition by renewing Family Member 3’s prescriptions that had previously been
prescribed by Family Member 3’s physician. He also prescribed travel medications (such as for
ptevention of malaria or traveler’s diarrhea) for Family Member 3 that could have been
prescribed by a primary care physician.

Because he routinely prescribed to his family members outside his expertise and treated

chronic conditions, the Panel finds that the ALJ correctly determined that his treatment of family
members went beyond the limited exceptions provided in the AMA opinions, and, therefore, was
unethical and unprofessional conduct. Dr. Smith’s exception is denied.

3. Dr. Smith had an Inappropriate Sexual Relationship with a Patient.

Sexual relationships with patients are both unprofessional and considered sexual
misconduct under the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations. At the time of the sexual
relationship, the Board’s regulations stated that licensees “may not engage in sexual
misconduct,” COMAR 10.32.17.03, and that Health Occ. § 14-404(6)(3) (immoral or
unprofessional conduct) “includes, but is not limited to, sexual misconduct.” Under COMAR
10.32.17.02B(3)(c) sexual misconduct was defined as including “(e]ngaging in a dating,
romantic, or sexual relationship which violates the code of ethics of the American Medical
Association.”

The State’s expert considered AMA Ethics Opinion 9.1.1 related to romantic or sexual
interactions with patients. Opinion 9.1.1 states that romantic or sexual interactions between
physician and a patient are unethical because they “detract from the goals of the patient-
physician relationship and may exploit the vulnerability of the patient . . . and ultimately be
detrimental to the patient’s well-being.”

Dr. Smith argued that the AMA Code of Medical Ethics 9.1.1 prohibits relationships with
“concurrent” patients, but not former patients. Dr. Smith claimed that his relationship with
Patient B began after he last saw her as a patient and that her last visit was a “line in the sand”
and that he began to socialize with Patient B a month, two or three after the end of the
professional relationship. He explained that he did not issue a cessation of practice discharge

letter because he was only acting as a consultant.
The ALJ did not believe Dr. Smith’s claim that the relationship had ended before his
personal and sexual relationship began. Neither does the Panel. The Panel finds that Dr. Smith
began treating Patient B in 1998, began a sexual relationship with Patient B in 2005, and that his
sexual relationship and the physician-patient relationship overlapped. The documentary
evidence, Dr. Smith’s own testimony, and Dr. Smith’s prior statements to the Program and
subsequent letter to the Board indicate that the sexual relationship was concurrent with his
treatment of Patient B.

Regarding the documentary evidence, Dr. Smith never issued a discharge letter to Patient
B and Dr. Smith’s medical records from Patient B’s last visit indicated an intent that she would
return for care for a follow-up visit to review laboratory test results. Nothing in the records
suggested that her treatment ended. Further, the medical records were incomplete because, in
2013, Dr. Smith “thinned” his file.

Dr. Smith himself testified that he refilled prescriptions for long term therapies for Patient
B even after their sexual relationship began.

Dr. Smith’s claim that his professional relationship with Patient B ended prior to the
sexual relationship was also inconsistent with his prior statements to the Program. In his
interview with the Program on March 4, 2020, Dr. Smith admitted that his sexual relationship
began in “2005 and continued until 2007 while she was still a patient of his.” In a letter, dated
August 20, 2020, the Board sought additional clarification from Dr. Smith regarding the
relationship. On August 27, 2020, Dr. Smith sent a response letter to the Board where he
claimed that the social friendship began shortly after 2000, and then five years later became “an
occasional intimate relationship that extended over two years. . . . I continued to see her

occasionally as a patient thereafter.”
Dr. Smith has since disclaimed his prior statement to the Program and to the Board,
claiming that he made “the same misstatement in two different places.” Dr. Smith’s excuse is
that he did not review the records before his meeting with the Program, so had not been able to-
check when the sexual relationship ended. However, this excuse does not explain why he made
the same statement admitting to the overlapping sexual relationship and medical treatment in his
letter to the Board that was written when he could review his records. The Panel rejects this self-
serving claim that the prior statements were misstatements. Dr. Smith’s version of events only
changed after he was charged and thereby informed that such relationships were unethical and a
potential violation of the Medical Practice Act. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s conclusion that Dr.
Smith’s treatment of Patient B overlapped with their sexual relationship. Dr. Smith’s exception
is denied.

4. Dr. Smith’s Statement to the Board Investigators was False.

The remaining charges of making a false report and a failure to cooperate with’ the
Board’s investigation concern Dr. Smith’s false answer to the question asked during his Board
interview related to his sexual relationship with Patient A. When asked “Did you ever have any
kind of personal relationship with any other patients that you were treating?” Dr. Smith stated:
“No.” This answer was later discovered to be false because, as discussed above, Dr. Smith
admitted that he treated Patient B during his sexual relationship with her.

Dr. Smith argues in his exceptions that he did not have a sexual relationship concurrent
with his treatment of Patient B and therefore his statement to the investigators was correct. As
discussed above, the Panel finds that his sexual relationship did overlap with the patient-

physician relationship and this answer was, therefore, incorrect and untruthful.

10
