 

October at 2014

Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair
Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Mansour G. Panah, M.D.
License Number: D15506
MBP Case Numbers: 2006-0475 and 2013-0854

Dear Dr. Singh and Members of the Board,

Please be advised that | have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D15506, effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license,
| may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the
practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Health Occ. Code Ann., §§ 14-101 ef seq.
(2005 Repl. Vol. and 2013 Supp.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as
of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender
of my license means that | am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in
the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and
on the Board’s acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of the Board.

My decision to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland has been prompted by an investigation of my license by
the Maryland Board of Physicians (the “Board”) and the Office of the Attorney
General. The investigation resulted in the Board’s issuance of disciplinary
charges against me under Board Case Numbers 2006-0475 and 2013-0854.

| have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland, in part, to avoid further prosecution of the discip'inary
charges now pending before a Disciplinary Panel of the Board and, in equal part
Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair, and Members of the Board
RE: Mansour G. Panah, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

due to my neurocognitive condition.

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of this matter and
that on October 8, 2013, issued disciplinary charges under Board Case Numbers
2006-0475 and 2013-0854, alleging that | violated the probationary conditions
set forth in the Consent Order, dated May 31, 2011, to which | was subject, and
that | violated the following provisions of the Act under Md. Health Occ. Code
Ann. § 14-404(a): (3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine; (4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; and (18)
Practices medicine with an unauthorized person or aids an unauthorized person
in the practice of medicine. A copy of the Board's charges, dated October 8,
2013, is attached hereto and incorporated herein. The Charges were based in
part on neuropsychological testing | underwent that determined that | was
cognitively impaired.

| participated in a formal evidentiary hearing before the Office of
Administrative Hearings, which resulted in the issuance of a Proposed Decision,
which is now pending before the Board. | wish to make it clear that | have
voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Letter of Surrender to
avoid further prosecution of the aforementioned disciplinary charges and, in
equal measure, because of my cognitive impairment. | acknowledge that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure, the allegations that were set forth in the
Board's disciplinary charges will be treated as if proven, and that | admit that |
violated the probationary conditions set forth in the Consent Order, dated May
31, 2011, and that | violated Md. Health Occ. Code Ann. §§ 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (4)
and (18).

| acknowledge that | underwent a formal evidentiary hearing in which
| was given the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and to make summation and arguments. |
understand that by executing this permanent letter of surrender, | am waiving
any right to contest the Board's disciplinary charges, including all substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, and the right to appeal.

| affirm that | have not practiced medicine since the Board summarily
suspended my medical license on October 8, 2013. | do not maintain a medical
office and have no hospital privileges in the State of Maryland.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards and the National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and
Protection Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry,
that | have surrendered my license in lieu of further disciplinary action under the
Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair, and Members of the Board
RE: Mansour G. Panah, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Act. | also understand that in the event | would apply for licensure in any form
in any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender and the underlying
investigative documents may be released or published by the Board to the same
extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
State Gov't Code Ann. § 10-611 et seq. (2009 Repl. Vol. and 2013 Supp.), and
that this Letter of Surrender shall constitute a disciplinary action by a Disciplinary
Panel of the Board.

| affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, | will present to
the Board my original Maryland medical license number D15506, and my most
recent wallet-sized renewal card. | acknowledge that on or before the date the
Board accepts this Letter of Surrender, | shall deliver to the Board: (1) any and
all Medical Assistance prescription forms in my possession; (2) any prescription
forms and pads in my possession; (3) any prescription forms or pads on which
my name and Drug Enforcement Administration Registration Number are
imprinted; and (4) within thirty (30) days of signing this Letter of Surrender, | will
destroy any controlled dangerous substances in my possession, other than those
prescribed by a licensed physician for me, and furnish proof to the Board that the
controlled dangerous substances have been destroyed.

| acknowledge that on or before the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, | shall deliver to the Division of Drug Control, 4201 Patterson Avenue,
1st Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215, my Maryland Controlled Dangerous
Substances Certificate; and shall deliver to the United States Drug Enforcement
Administration my Drug Enforcement Administration Registration Card.

| further recognize and agree that by tendering this Letter of Surrender
that my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, | agree
that | have no right to reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland. | further agree that the Board, or a Disciplinary Panel of the Board, is
not obligated to consider any application for licensure that | might file at a future
date and that | waive any hearing rights that | might possess regarding any such
application.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that |
have been advised of my right to be represented by the attorney of my choice
throughout proceedings before the Board, or a Disciplinary Panel of the Board,
including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. | understand both the nature of the Board’s actions and this Letter of
Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. | voluntarily choose to
surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms and
veviniuer Singn, M.U., Cnair, and Members of the Board
RE: Mansour G. Panah, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 4

surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms and
conditions set out herein. | make this decision knowingly a oluntarily.
Very truly yours,

Mansour G. Panah, M.D.

(o iby fle.
Read and approved: |
SP 4

Lie /, tof 20 (4

Edward J. Léyden, Esquire
Counsel for Dr. Panah

NOTARY

STATE OF . Ady aed.

iS { eo ay
CITYICOUNTY OF Caches ie OFF, La

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this da Pate
before me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid. personally appearca
Mansour G. Panah, M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of
perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and

deed.
AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 
 
     

Notary Public

My commission expires: OFZ, { Liv .

WEINA XUAN
3 NOTARY PUBLIC 7596685
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA

 

 
Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair, and Members of the Board
RE: Mansour G. Panah, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 5

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of the Maryland State Board of Physicians, on this 31% day of
October, 2014, |, Devinder Singh, M.D., accept Mansour G. Panah, M.D.’s
PERMANENT SURRENDER of his license to practice medicine in the State of

Maryland.
Bods

Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair
Maryland State Board of Physicians

cc: Robert J. Gilbert, Deputy Counsel, HOPL
Mansour G. Panah, M.D.
Dana Mullen, Compliance Analyst
