Parviz Sahandy, M.D.

Date: | , _ al

Arun Bhandari, M.D. Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Parviz Sahandy, M.D. License Number: D15915
Case Number: 7718-0079

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D15915, effective in 90 days
from today. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that I entered into a Consent Order with Panel A of the Board on
January 12, 2018 that found that I was guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine and found that I violated the Board’s regulations on sexual
impropriety. A copy of the Consent Order is attached as Attachment 1. On February 5,
2019, Panel A issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause alleging that
I violated the Consent Order by failing to successfully complete a boundaries course. A
copy of the Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause is attached as
Attachment 2. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the violation and because I wish to retire from
the practice of medicine.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the Violation of Consent
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Parviz Sahandy, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Order. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the allegations of
my failure to comply with the Consent Order will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to
appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in
any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may
impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public
safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before
signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand
both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that
I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv trily-vours.

Signature on File

Parviz Sahandy, M.D.
her next visit, which was scheduled for October 2015. Patient A experienced continuing
distress from the Respondent’s behavior and overtures toward her.

9. During its investigation into the Respondent's actions toward Patient A, the
Board reviewed a prior complaint it closed through a non-public Advisory Letter, dated
November 28, 2012. The Advisory Letter stated that if additional allegations of a similar
nature arose, the Board would reopen this investigation.

10. This complaint was filed by an adult female ("Patient B") who, for a period
of time, was in treatment with a physician with whom the Respondent was professionally
affiliated. When Patient B was unable to obtain an appointment from the Respondent's
professional associate, she saw the Respondent in 2011 on two Office visits, primarily for
medication refills. During the first visit, the Respondent made inappropriate personal
remarks to Patient B. During the second visit, the Respondent again made sexually
oriented remarks to Patient B, touched her on the shoulders in a non-clinical manner,
requested to meet her for a social purpose, and hugged and kissed her, which made her
feel very uncomfortable. Because of the Respondent's actions, Patient B decided not to
see him further for treatment. Patient B was re-interviewed by Board investigators and
reaffirmed the statements she made in her complaint.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act and COMAR: Health
Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(3) Is guilty of: (i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; and (ii)
Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; and COMAR 10.32.17.02B(2) (sexual

impropriety).
ORDER

 

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent's license is REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period
of ONE (1) YEAR,? to begin upon the effective date of this Consent Order, subject to the
following probationary terms and conditions:

(1) Within 10 days, the Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) for evaluation
and treatment. The Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate
and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and
requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP,
and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed
by MPRP;

(2) The Respondent shall sign and update the written
release/consent forms requested by the Board and MPRP.
The Respondent shall sign the release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board, including disclosure of any and all MPRP records and
files possessed by MPRP. The Respondent shall also sign
any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of the Respondent's current therapists
and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is
authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
treatment records;

(3) ‘If, after MPRP’s evaluation of the Respondent, MPRP
determines that Respondent is not safe to practice medicine,
MPRP will forward the evaluation to Panel A, and Panel A may

2 If the Respondent's license expires while the Respondent is on probation, the
probationary period and any probationary conditions will be tolled.

8
immediately summarily suspend Respondent's license
pursuant to the requirements of State Gov't § 10-226 and may
impose any further conditions for the suspension;

(4) Within six (6) months, the Respondent shall successfully
complete a Board disciplinary panel-approved course in
maintaining appropriate psychiatrist-patient boundaries. The
panel will not accept a course taken over the Internet. The
course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal. The
Respondent must provide documentation to the panel that the
Respondent has successfully completed the course.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, after ONE (1) YEAR, the Respondent may
submit a written petition to the Disciplinary Panel A requesting termination of probation.
There shall be no early termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the
probation may be terminated through an order of the Board or Panel A. The Respondent
may be required to appear before the Board or Panel A to discuss her petition for
termination. The Board or Panel A will grant the petition to terminate the probation if the
Respondent has complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and there are
no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
of probation or this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before the Board or a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of

probation or this Consent Order, the Board or disciplinary panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions,
or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The
Board or disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth
above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed in
this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes into
effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Directof, who signs on behalf of Panel
B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,

Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014 Repl. Vo. & 2016 Supp.).

difiz (z0lk Chaatins 4 hl
Dat Christine A. Farrélly |

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

10
CONSENT

|, Parviz Sahandy, M.D., acknowledge that | have had the opportunity to consult
with counsel before signing this document. By this Consent, | agree and accept to be
bound by this Consent Order and its conditions and restrictions. | waive any rights | may
have had to contest the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. | acknowledge the legal
authority and the jurisdiction of Disciplinary Panel A to initiate these proceedings and to
issue and enforce this Consent Order. | also affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal
any adverse ruling of Disciplinary Panel B that might have followed any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having had an opportunity to consult with counsel,
without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms of this Consent Order. | voluntarily sign this Order, and understand its meaning

and effect.

ge
ate

Respondent

Read and approved:

   

onathlan P. Kagan, Esquire
Counsel for Dr. Sahandy

11

 
NOTARY

STATE OF WARY LAD)

cITYICOUNTY OF _JANNG  fiAudNBed

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 10th day of January, 2018, before me, a Notary
Public of the foregoing State and City/County, did personally appear Parviz Sahandy,
M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his
voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notary seal.

  
     

Notary Public a a

;

My commission expires: 2L/1 4 | J]

  

Ey ose AS
oy UNDEL_CO ’
7

“ny, ui “

12
Attachment 2
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

PARVIZ SAHANDY, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D15915 * Case Number: 7718-0079A
x * * * * * * * % * * x * %

VIOLATION OF CONSENT ORDER AND NOTICE TO SHOW CAUSE

 

Disciplinary Panel A ("Panel A") of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby charges PARVIZ SAHANDY, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License
Number D15915, with violating the terms and conditions of the Consent Order, dated

January 12, 2018 (the “Consent Order”).

Specifically, Panel A charges the Respondent with violating Condition Four (4) of
the Consent Order, which states:

Condition Four

Within six (6) months, the Respondent shall successfully complete a
Board disciplinary panel-approved course in maintaining appropriate
psychiatrist-patient boundaries. The panel will not accept a course
taken over the Internet. The course may not be used to fulfill the
continuing medical education credits required for license renewal.
The Respondent must provide documentation to the panel that the
Respondent has successfully completed the course.

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!
Panel A bases its charges on the following facts that it has cause to believe are

true:

1 The allegations set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with reasonable
notice of the asserted facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with these charges.
1. BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent was and is licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to
practice medicine in Maryland on October 19, 1973, under License Number D15915.
The Respondent’s license is current through September 30, 2019.

2. The Respondent is not currently board-certified in any medical specialty.”

3. The Respondent practices at a medical office located at 1831 Forest Drive,
Suite A, Annapolis, Maryland 21401.

Il. PRIOR DISCIPLINARY HISTORY

4. In or around 2016, the Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent
after receiving a complaint from a former patient who alleged that the Respondent
engaged in inappropriate boundary violations with her. While reviewing this complaint,
the Board reviewed a previous complaint against the Respondent that alleged similar
misconduct. The Board’s investigation determined that the Respondent engaged in
inappropriate boundary violations with female patients.

5. Based on those investigative findings, Panel A, on August 25, 2017, issued
disciplinary charges against the Respondent, alleging that he violated disciplinary
provisions of the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seg., and in addition, violated the Board’s sexual

misconduct regulations, found at Md. Code Regs. (*COMAR”) 10.32.17.01 ef seg.

? The Respondent was formerly board-certified in psychiatry and neurology. His certification lapsed in or
around January 2018.
6. The Respondent resolved those charges by entering into a Consent Order
with Panel A, dated January 12, 2018. Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A concluded
as a matter of law that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act and

COMAR: Health Occ. § 14-404(3), Is guilty of (i) Immoral conduct in the practice of |

 

medicine; and (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; and COMAR
10.32.17.02B(2)(sexual impropriety).

7. Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A reprimanded the Respondent and
placed him on probation for a minimum period of one year, subject to certain
probationary terms and conditions, including the following:

8. Condition Four

Within six (6) months, the Respondent shall successfully complete a
Board disciplinary panel-approved course in maintaining appropriate
psychiatrist-patient boundaries. The panel will not accept a course
taken over the Internet. The course may not be used to fulfill the
continuing medical education credits required for license renewal.
The Respondent must provide documentation to the panel that the
Respondent has successfully completed the course.

9, The Order further stated:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with
any term or condition of probation or this Consent Order, the
Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing, If
there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be
before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before the Board or
a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or
Disciplinary Panel determines that the Respondent has failed to
comply with any term or condition of probation or this Consent
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Parviz Sahandy, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY
STATE OF Ma ry brn
CITY/COUNTY OF 7 Brae Mune ae ” pondll
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 4 YE bay of hoy / , 2019 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Parviz Sahandy, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

cSelllnneg,

, we
pL ls oe
Peo An, 2s

NOTARY
Notary Public PUBLIC

= eo 2
Se Comm. a as
oo : = 9,2
My commission expires: 2 me
%
.

fe ue
AS

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this GFF say of font. 2019, I,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Parviz'Sahandy, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

UnistenrA
Christine A. Farrelly! Executive Directo;
Maryland Board of Physici

 

 
  

 

pos

x
na
Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate
terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license
to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or Disciplinary Panel
may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent[.]

I. CURRENT INVESTIGATIVE ALLEGATIONS

10. Pursuant to the Consent Order, the Board required that within six months,
the Respondent successfully complete a Board-disciplinary approved course in
maintaining appropriate psychiatrist-patient boundaries.

11, On or about August 29, 2018, the Respondent, in order to comply with
Condition Four of the Consent Order, enrolled in a program (the “Program”) titled,
PROBE: Ethics and Boundaries Program, offered by CPEP? on November 15-17, 2018.4
The Program required the Respondent to participate in seminars, which included
interactions between seminar enrollees, and submit a final essay.

12. On or about December 26, 2018, the Board received notification that the
Respondent failed the Program. As set forth in a report dated December 13, 2018, the
Program assessed the Respondent's capacities for ethical reasoning and insight with
regard to his infraction and determined that he “provides little insight into his

responsibility to prevent the particular actions prompting the Board’s referral or into the

impact of his actions on his patients.” The Program concluded that based on his seminar

* CPEP is a non-profit organization that according to its website, provides competence assessment and intensive
education services to physicians and other health care professionals,

* The Respondent previously enrolled in another course but was unable to complete it due to circumstances beyond
his control.
performance and final essay, he “failed to demonstrate an ability to analyze his
professional violations from an ethical perspective,” and therefore failed the Program.

13. The Board’s investigation determined that the Respondent’s failure to
successfully complete the Program, as described above, constitutes, in whole or in part, a
failure to comply with Condition Four of the Consent Order.

14. The Respondent’s failure to comply with Condition Four, as described
above, constitutes a violation of the Consent Order.

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, Panel A finds that the Respondent violated the probationary
terms and conditions of the Consent Order, dated January 12, 2018, Panel A may impose
disciplinary sanctions against the Respondent’s license, including additional probationary
terms and conditions, revocation, suspension, or reprimand, and/or may impose a
monetary penalty.

NOTICE OF SHOW CAUSE HEARING

 

A Show Cause Hearing in this matter has been scheduled for Wednesday, March
13, 2019 at 1:00 p.m., at the Board’s Office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,

Maryland 21215,
Felouary 5, 2015 _
Date

BRIAN E. FROSH

Attorney General of Maryland

Robert J. Gilbert, Deputy Counsel

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Suite 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

(410) 767-5680
Attachment |
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

 

PARVIZ SAHANDY, M.D. © * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent . * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D15915 * Case Number: 2017-0108A
* * * * * * * * * x * *
CONSENT ORDER
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

 

On August 25, 2017, Disciplinary Panel A ("Panel A") of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged PARVIZ SAHANDY, M.D. (the “Respondent”’),
License Number D15915, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. Il ("Health Occ. II") §§ 14-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.),
Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. | (“Health Occ. |”) § 1-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2016
Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. ("COMAR") 10.32.17 ef seq.

Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the Act
under Health Occ. Il § 14-404:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this

subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if
the licensee:
(3) Is guilty of:

(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[.]

The pertinent provisions of Health Occ. | § 1-212 provide as follows:
(a) Adoption of regulations. - Each health occupations board authorized
to issue a license or certificate under this article shall adopt
regulations that:

(1) Prohibit sexual misconduct; and

(2) Provide for the discipline of a licensee or certificate holder
found to be guilty of sexual misconduct.

The pertinent provisions of COMAR 10.32.17 provide:
.01
This chapter prohibits sexual misconduct against patients or key third
parties by individuals licensed or certified under Health Occupations
Article, Titles 14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland.
02
A. In this chapter, the following terms have the meanings indicated.
B. Terms Defined.
(1) Key third party.
(a) “Key third party” means an individual who participates
in the health and welfare of the patient concurrent

with the physician-patient relationship.

(b) “Key third party” includes, but is not limited to the
following individuals:

(i) Spouse;
(ii) Partner;
(iii) Parent;

(iv) | Guardian;
(v) Surrogate; or
(vi) | Proxy designated by durable power of attorney.

(2) Sexual Impropriety.

(a) “Sexual impropriety” means behavior, gestures, or
expressions that are seductive, sexually suggestive, or
sexually demeaning to a patient or a key third party
regardless of whether the sexual impropriety occurs
inside or outside of a professional setting.
(b)

“Sexual impropriety” includes, but is not limited to:

(i) Failure to provide privacy for disrobing;
(ii) | Performing a pelvic or rectal examination

without the use of gloves;

(iii) Using the health care practitioner-patient

relationship to initiate a dating, romantic, or
sexual relationship; and

(iv). Initiation by the health care practitioner of

conversation regarding the health care
practitioner's sexual problems, sexual likes or
dislikes, or fantasies.

(3) “Sexual misconduct: means a health care practitioner's
behavior toward a patient, former patient, or key third party,
which includes:

(a)
(b)
(c)

Sexual impropriety;
Sexual Violation; or

Engaging in a dating, romantic, or sexual relationship
which violates the code of ethics of the American
Medical Association, American Osteopathic
Association, American Psychiatric Association, or
other standard recognized professional code of
ethics of the health care practitioner's discipline or
specialty.

(4) Sexual Violation.

(a)

(b)

“Sexual violation” means health care practitioner-
patient or key third party sex, whether or not initiated
by the patient or key third party, and engaging in any
conduct with a patient or key third party that is sexual
or may be reasonably interpreted as sexual,
regardless of whether the sexual violation occurs
inside or outside of a professional setting.

“Sexual violation” includes, but is not limited to:

(i) Sexual intercourse, genital to genital contact;
(ii) Oral to genital contact;

(iii) | Oral to anal contact or genital to anal contact;
(iv) _ Kissing in a romantic or sexual manner;
03

On December 6, 2017, the Respondent appeared before Panel A, sitting as a
Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution. Asa result of negotiations occurring before
Panel A, the Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of

Procedural Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and

Notary.

(v)
(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

(x)

Touching the patient's breasts, genitals, or any
sexualized body part;

Actively causing the patient or key third party to
touch the health care practitioner's breasts,
genitals, or any sexualized body part,
Encouraging the patient to masturbate in the
presence of the health care practitioner or
masturbation by the health care practitioner
while the patient is present;

Offering to provide practice-related services,
such as drugs, in exchange for sexual favors;
and

Intentionally exposing the health care
practitioners breasts, genitals, or any
sexualized body part.

Individuals licensed or certified under Health Occupations Article,
Titles 14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland, may not engage in

sexual misconduct.

Health Occupations Article, §§ 14-404(a)(3) and 15-314(3),
Annotated Code of Maryland, includes, but is not limited to sexual

misconduct.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A makes the following Findings of Fact:

I. Background/Licensing information

1.

medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice

At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

 
medicine in Maryland on October 19, 1973, under License Number D15915. The
Respondent's license is current through September 30, 2019.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in psychiatry and neurology.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent maintained a medical office
located at 1831 Forest Drive, Suite A, Annapolis, Maryland 21401.
I. The Complaint

4. On or about August 15, 2016, the Board received a complaint from a former
patient of the Respondent ("Patient A")' who expressed concerns about the Respondent’s
conduct during an office visit. Patient A complained that Respondent kissed Patient A on
the cheek and while hugging her “was massaging [her] back as [she] cried which he had
never done before." Patient A also complained that Respondent also made inappropriate
comments to her about offering to "find her a boyfriend" and stating that he was "available"
for that purpose. Patient A also recounted that after her last office visit, the Respondent
contacted her by telephone and informed her that he was “attracted” to her and was
“available.” |

5. After reviewing this complaint, the Board initiated an investigation of this
matter. While investigating this complaint, the Board reviewed a previous complaint
against the Respondent that alleged similar misconduct. The Board's investigation
determined that the Respondent engaged in inappropriate boundary violations with
female patients, which constitute violations of the Act and the Board’s sexual misconduct

regulations.

1 For confidentiality reasons, the names of patients, individuals or practitioners, other than the Respondent,
will not be disclosed in this document. The Respondent is aware of the identities of all patients, individuals
or practitioners referenced herein.
i. Subsequent Board investigation

6. Board investigators interviewed Patient A, who reported that she began
seeing the Respondent for medication management in 2011, and thereafter presented to
him for follow-up care, typically at three-month intervals. Patient A stated that at the
conclusion of some of the office visits, the Respondent physically touched her, which
included shaking her hand, hugging her and/or kissing her on the cheek. Patient A also
reported that on occasion, the Respondent made remarks to her about finding her a
boyfriend and being available for that purpose.

7. Patient A reported that at the conclusion of an office visit occurring on or
about July 13, 2015, she asked the Respondent for a hug. In response, the Respondent
hugged her, during which he rubbed Patient A’s back, which made her feel uncomfortable.

8. Patient A reported that on or about August 6, 2015, the Respondent
telephoned her via a non-office telephone number and left a voicemail message,
purportedly to check up on her. Patient A then returned the Respondent's telephone call.
The Respondent did not note this telephone call in his office notes. During this
conversation, the Respondent first inquired about Patient A’s wellbeing, then informed
her that he was attracted to her and wanted to engage in a social or romantic relationship
with her. The Respondent also disclosed significant details about his personal life to
Patient A. Patient A was very distressed by the Respondent's comments to her during
this telephone call. After the conclusion of the telephone call, Patient A reported her

concerns about the Respondent's actions to family members, after which she canceled

 
