IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

LAWRENCE D. EGBERT, M.D. i STATE BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Respondent. i Case Number: 2011-0870

License No. D 16049 *

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
PROCEDURAL HISTORY

Lawrence D. Egbert, M.D. is a board-certified anesthesiologist, who has been licensed by
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (“Board”) since 1952. In November, 2012, the Board
charged Dr. Egbert with unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, see Health Occ. $
14-404(a)(3)(ii), based on his actions as the Medical Director for Final Exit Network (“FEN”), a
national right-to-die organization, and his participation in the assisted suicides of six FEN
members.

Dr. Egbert requested and received an evidentiary hearing on September 26, 2013, at the
Office of Administrative Hearings. At that hearing, the State presented expert witness testimony
from Henry Silverman, M.D., who testified as an expert in internal medicine and medical ethics.
Dr. Egbert did not testify or present any witnesses. In a Proposed Decision issued on December
23, 2013, Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) Jennifer M. Carter Jones found that Dr. Egbert
engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine based on Dr. Egbert’s review of
FEN applicants’ medical records, his determinations on applicants’ suffering, and his
determinations on whether applicants’ conditions could or could not benefit from additional
medical treatment. The ALJ further found that Dr. Egbert held himself out as a treating

physician to other physicians so they would provide patients’ medical documents to him as part
of the FEN screening process. The ALJ did not deem Dr. Egbert’s presence or his assistance in
the suicides to be “in the practice of medicine.” The ALJ recommended that Dr. Egbert’s
medical license be revoked.

On January 8, 2014, Dr. Egbert filed exceptions (dated January 7, 2014) to the ALJ’s
Proposed Decision. The State also filed exceptions and a response to Dr. Egbert’s exceptions on
January 16, 2014. Both parties appeared before Disciplinary Panel B (the “Panel”) of the Board
for an oral exceptions hearing on March 26, 2014.

FINDINGS OF FACT

The Panel adopts the findings of fact numbered 1-33 proposed by the ALJ (Attached as
Exhibit 1).! The facts, as described by the ALJ, and summarized below, are largely undisputed.
Dr. Egbert was the Medical Director for FEN, an organization dedicated to supporting and aiding
non-terminally ill persons to hasten their deaths. Individuals who wanted the organization’s help
to commit suicide would submit to FEN an application with their medical records and a
statement explaining why they wished to end their lives.

As the Medical Director of FEN, Dr. Egbert received each applicant’s medical record and
determined whether the applicant’s request for an assisted suicide would be accepted.” Dr.
Egbert explained that he reviewed the medical records to determine: (1) whether the applicant
accurately identified the source of his or her suffering, (2) whether the applicant’s suffering was
“horrible,” and (3) whether the medical treatment that the applicant was receiving was adequate.
In at least one circumstance, Dr. Egbert rejected an application because the applicant’s pain was
' The ALJ’s Findings of Fact incorporated twenty stipulated facts (numbered 1-20) agreed to by the
parties and thirteen additional factual findings (numbered 21-33). ; ;

The applications were reviewed by the “medical evaluation committee.” That committee consisted of
professionals in various disciplines, each needing to be licensed in their discipline, and at least one

layperson. As the medical director, Dr. Egbert made the final decision for each applicant.
2
4. Rehearsal and Procedure Aiding Suicide is In the Practice of Medicine.

Dr. Egbert’s review of the patients’ medical records cannot be separated from his conduct
in rehearsing the process for suicide, including instructions on how to use the materials, walking
patients through the steps of the suicide, and holding the patients’ hands during the suicide.

The ALJ explained that “participation in assisted suicide is antithetical to the long-
standing or prevailing purpose of medical practice to treat and heal patients and/or to make
patients comfortable.” ALJ Proposed Decision at 19. The ALJ stated that assisting suicide was
not for the purpose of healing or relieving patients’ symptoms of ailments, and, therefore, should
not be considered in the practice of medicine.

The Panel disagrees with the ALJ’s rationale on this point because the ALJ disregarded
caselaw regarding the practice of medicine. Physicians are often found guilty of unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine for acts that are not facially related to the practice of
medicine or are antithetical to the practice of medicine. Specifically, Maryland courts have
found the practice of medicine to include sexually harassing hospital co-workers (Banks, 354
Md. at 76-77), sexual liaisons with patients (Finucan, 380 Md. 601), lying on peer reviews
(Cornfeld, 174 Md. App. at 462), and lying on a renewal application. (Kim, 423 Md. at 527).
Though none of these cases directly involved a physician acting to treat or heal patients they
each were considered within the practice of medicine. Based on this caselaw, the Panel rejects
the ALJ’s reasoning.

The State’s expert, Dr. Silverman, testified that by holding the hands of the patients while
they committed suicide, Dr. Egbert provided emotional support to the patient and ensured that
the hood was not displaced because of an involuntary spasm of the patients’ arms. Dr. Silverman

opined that both — providing emotional support and ensuring the hood stay on — were the role of

ll
a physician and, therefore, constituted the practice of medicine. Dr. Egbert did not provide any
expert testimony contradicting this conclusion.

5. Dr. Egbert had Notice that his Review of Medical Records would be
Considered In the Practice of Medicine.

Dr. Egbert argues in his exceptions that he was not given notice that his review of
medical records was unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The charges allege,
however, that “[iJn his capacity as Medical Director, [Dr. Egbert] evaluated the records
submitted by applicants to determine whether the applicant’s request for assistance would be
accepted.” This allegation in the charges is sufficient notice that Dr. Egbert could be held
responsible for unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine for his review of medical
records.

6. The Principle of Edjusem Generis does not Lead to the Conclusion that
Assisted Suicide was Outside the Practice of Medicine.

The ALJ concluded assisted suicide was outside the practice of medicine, in part, because
the definition of the practice of medicine in Health Occ. § 14-101(0) did not explicitly include
assisted suicide, but did include “ending of a human pregnancy.” The ALJ used the doctrine of
ejusdem generis to infer that assisted suicide should not be considered “in the practice of
medicine.” The doctrine of ejusdem generis is defined as “when a general word or phrase
follows a list of specifics, the general word or phrase will be interpreted to include only items of
the same class as those listed.” Haile v. Siate,431 Md. 448, 468-69 (2013). Ejusdem
generis may be applied under the following conditions: “(1) the statute contains an enumeration
of specific words; (2) the members of the enumeration suggest a class; (3) the class is not
exhausted by the enumeration; (4) a general reference supplementing the enumeration, usually

following it; and (5) there is not clearly manifested an intent that the general term be given a

12
broader meaning than the doctrine requires.” Haile, at 469 (quoting Boyle v. Maryland-National
Capital Park & Planning Comm’n, 385 Md. 142, 156 (2005)).

The Panel finds that the ALJ’s application of the doctrine of ejusdem generis was
improper. None of the conditions required to apply the doctrine of ejusdem generis are present
here. The statute does not have an enumeration of specific words and there is no applicable
class. The sole inclusion of “ending of a human pregnancy” by itself cannot be sufficient to
demonstrate that it is the first of a class of permitted actions. Even if there is an implicit class
consisting of controversial practices, there is no indication that this one item, ending pregnancy,
can, by itself, be considered an exhaustive list. Finally, there is no general reference
supplementing the enumeration. In sum, the doctrine of ejusdem generis is not applicable to
interpreting the definition of the practice of medicine.

Dr. Egbert’s actions throughout the suicide process were “in the practice of medicine,”
under § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

II. UNPROFESSIONAL CONDUCT

A. ALJ’s Proposed Decision and Exceptions

The ALJ found that, because she had determined that participation during the actual
assisted suicide did not constitute the practice of medicine, whether Dr. Egbert’s actions were
unprofessional or not was of no consequence. The ALJ found that, in Dr. Egbert’s review of the
medical records, Dr. Egbert’s conduct was egregiously unprofessional.

The State took exception to the ALJ’s analysis. Dr. Egbert excepted to the conclusion

that his review of the medical records was inherently unprofessional.

13
B. Caselaw

“Unprofessional Conduct” is not defined by the Medical Practice Act, Health Occ. § 14-101.
Maryland courts have broadly interpreted what may be considered to be “unprofessional
conduct” under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). See Finucan, 380 Md. at 597 (sexual relationship
with three patients deemed unprofessional conduct); Salerian v. Maryland State Bd. of
Physicians, 176 Md. App. 231, 249 (2007) (disclosing confidential physician-patient information
was unprofessional conduct); Cornfeld, 174 Md. App. at 468 (dishonesty by lying to a hospital
peer review deemed unprofessional conduct). Courts have stated that “unprofessional conduct” is
“conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of a profession, or conduct which is
unbecoming” a physician in good standing. Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248 (quoting Finucan,
380 Md. at 593).

C. Analysis
1. Disposing of the Suicide Paraphernalia was Unprofessional.

Dr. Egbert removed and disposed of the helium tanks, hoods and suicide paraphernalia.
According to the Final Exit book, the Exit Guide removes suicide paraphernalia to hinder any
police investigation, which would lead to longer inquiries. Dr. Egbert’s actions in removing the
suicide paraphernalia not only hindered police investigations, but also caused other physicians
and medical examiners to list the cause of death incorrectly on the patients’ death certificates.
Dr. Silverman, the State’s expert, opined that removing the suicide paraphernalia was deceptive
for these reasons. Honesty with patients and colleagues is a fundamental principle of medical
ethics. See AMA’s Principles of Medical Ethics (http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-
resources/medical-ethics/code-medical-ethics/principles-medical-ethics.page). See also

Cornfeld, 174 Md. App. at 479 (quoting Dr. K. v. State Bd. of Physician Quality Assurance, 98
14
Md. App. 103 (1993)). Lying to or misleading other physicians, medical examiners, and/or the
police is a dishonest act, see Cornfeld, 174 Md. App. at 479, and is unbecoming a medical
professional in good standing. See Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248.

2. Dr. Egbert’s Conduct was Unprofessional because it was Contrary to the
American Medical Association’s Code of Medical Ethics.

Dr. Egbert’s actions are contrary to the American Medical Association’s Code of Medical
Ethics, Opinion 2.211. “[A]llowing physicians to participate in assisted suicide would cause
more harm than good. . . . Instead of participating in assisted suicide, physicians must
aggressively respond to the needs of patients at the end of life. . . . Patients near the end of life
must continue to receive emotional support... .” See State’s Exhibit 25. The Panel concludes
that performing actions that have been rejected by the AMA’s Code of Medical Ethics is
evidence of unprofessional conduct. See Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248.

3. Dr. Egbert’s Conduct was Unprofessional because it is Illegal under
Maryland Law.

Assisting suicide is a criminal act under Section 3-102 of the Criminal Law Article. That

Section provides as follows:

With the purpose of assisting another individual to commit or attempt to commit
suicide, an individual may not:

(1) by coercion, duress, or deception, knowingly cause another individual to
commit suicide or attempt to commit suicide;

(2) knowingly provide the physical means by which another individual commits
or attempts to commit suicide with knowledge of that individual’s intent to use
the physical means to commit suicide; or

(3) knowingly participate in a physical act by which another individual commits
or attempts to commit suicide.

Dr. Egbert participated in the patients’ physical act of committing suicide, by holding down the
patients’ hands. Committing this illegal act is further evidence that Dr. Egbert’s actions were

unprofessional. See Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248.
15
4. Dr. Egbert’s Conduct was Unprofessional because it does not Include
Protective Safeguards Required by States that Permit Physician Assisted
Suicide.

Dr. Egbert’s practices violate the strict protective standards to minimize the potential for
abuse required in states that permit assisted suicide. In his expert report, Dr. Silverman noted
that states that allow physician assisted suicide require a psychiatric consultation to ensure
existence of a rational decision. Dr. Egbert and FEN do not have such a consultation to ensure
rational decisions by the FEN applicant or member.

Dr. Egbert and FEN also ignore the strict requirement by states that permit assisted
suicide that limit such practice only to terminal patients. Oregon, Washington and Vermont, the
three states that have passed laws permitting physician assisted suicide, each limit physician
assisted suicide to patients suffering from terminal disease. See 18 Vt. Stat. Ann. § 5281
(terminal disease is defined as “an incurable and irreversible disease which would, within
reasonable medical judgment, result in death within six months”); Or. Rev. Stat. 127.800 §1.01
(defining terminal disease as “incurable and irreversible disease that has been medically
confirmed and will, within reasonable medical judgment, produce death within six months”);
Wash. Rev. Code § 70.245.010 (same). Vermont specifies that “a bona fide physician—patient
relationship with a patient with a terminal condition shall not be considered to have engaged in
unprofessional conduct” under certain limited circumstances. 18 Vt. Stat. Ann. § 5289
(emphasis added). Oregon and Washington requires the attending physician to “[mJake the
initial determination of whether a patient has a terminal disease .. .” Or. Rev. Stat. 127.815 §

3.01; Wash. Rev. Code 70.245.040 (using identical language).°

> This does not mean to suggest that had Dr. Egbert complied with the other states’ laws that his actions

would be legal or professional in Maryland.
16
Dr. Egbert admitted by stipulation that none of the six patients whom he helped commit
suicide had terminal diseases. Dr. Egbert’s conduct towards non-terminal patients was not a
mere administrative oversight. In FEN’s first responder and exit guide training, FEN explained
its approach to non-terminal patients as a feature of the FEN organization, explaining that FEN
“was created specifically to take nonterminal as well as terminal cases.” In a question and
answer pamphlet, FEN claims to be “the only organization in the United States that will support
individuals who are not ‘terminally ill’” and explains “[n]o other organization in the US has the
courage to make this commitment.” Dr. Egbert’s flagrant disregard for the common safeguards
enacted by states that allow assisted suicides supports the conclusion that Dr. Egbert’s actions
are “conduct .. . unbecoming a member in good standing of a profession.” Finucan, 380 Md. at
593,

II. DR. EGBERT’S ADDITIONAL EXCEPTIONS
A. Fraudulently Obtaining Medical Records

The ALJ’s proposed decision concluded that Dr. Egbert improperly held himself out as a
pain management physician in order to obtain patient medical records even though he had no
intention of treating the patients’ conditions. Dr. Egbert excepted to this conclusion. The Panel
accepts Dr. Egbert’s exception because no evidence in the record demonstrates that Dr. Egbert
requested medical records from any physician, deceived any physician in order to obtain medical
records, or that any medical records were directly transmitted to Dr. Egbert from another
physician. The Panel, therefore, does not include these acts, for which there was no evidence, in

the Board’s determination of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

17
B. Admissibility of Newspaper Articles, Exhibits 1 and 3

Dr. Egbert objects to the admission into evidence of newspaper articles from the
Baltimore Sun and Washington Post, Exhibits 1 and 3 respectively, because the articles contain
unreliable hearsay and prejudicial hyperbole. The Panel concludes that the articles were properly
admitted because they were relevant to the investigation and the issues raised in the charging
documents. The panel, nevertheless, gives Exhibits 1 and 3 little weight based on their reliability
limitations, and instead bases the Panel’s opinion on the State’s other evidentiary exhibits and
testimony at the hearing and argument before the Board.

C. Admissibility of Dr. Silverman’s Testimony

Dr. Egbert also excepts to the admission by the ALJ of Dr. Silverman’s curriculum vitae
and report based on the report’s reliance on the AMA ethics opinion. Dr. Egbert claims that the
AMA Code of Ethics was not adopted by the Panel and therefore cannot be applied to sanction a
licensee. The Panel agrees with Dr. Egbert that the Panel is not required to adopt or consider the
AMA’s Ethics Opinion. Nor is the Panel required to accept the opinion of Dr. Silverman. The
Panel may do so and chooses to do so here. The Board concludes that Dr. Silverman’s expert
report is relevant and its reliance on the AMA ethics opinion does not render it inadmissible.
The Panel agrees with the State that unprofessional conduct expressly includes conduct that
breaches rules or ethical codes of professional conduct. Finucan, 380 Md. at 593. See also
Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The Panel concludes that Dr. Egbert’s actions, as described above, constitute

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).
ORDER
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, by a majority of
the quorum of Disciplinary Panel B hereby
ORDERED that the license of Lawrence D. Egbert, M.D., to practice medicine in
Maryland is REVOKED; and it is further
ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC document pursuant to Md. Gen. Prov. Code Ann. §§

4-101 to 4-601 (2014 Vol.)

i2iz- [2014 )
Date Astin, Farrelly, Exectitive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians

  

 
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408(a), Dr. Egbert has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Dr. Egbert files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
David S. Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

20
not being properly treated and he advised the applicant to seek further pain management from
her physician. Dr. Egbert also noted that FEN accepted applicants with exclusively
psychological/psychiatric issues. For psychological and psychiatric cases, Dr. Egbert could refer
the applicant to a mental health specialist, if he believed that his own determination would be
inadequate.

After FEN accepted the applicant as a member to FEN, that member would receive a
copy of the Final Exit book, which detailed how to commit suicide using helium gas to hasten
death by releasing helium into an airtight bag/hood over the member’s head. FEN assigned each
member one or two “Exit Guides” to aid the member’s suicide. The Exit Guide talks with the
member, rehearses the suicide with the member, ensures all the paperwork is completed, attends
the member’s suicide, and holds the member’s hands to comfort the member and to prevent the
member from involuntarily displacing the bag during the suicide. After the member’s death, the
Exit Guide removes the helium tanks and bag, leaves, and disposes of the suicide paraphernalia.
The suicide paraphernalia is immediately removed from the suicide location to prevent the cause
of death from being determined and listed on the death certificate and to hinder police
investigations into the circumstances of the death. Each member plans in advance the person
who will “discover” the body and that person either calls 911 or the family physician. After the
suicide, the Exit Guide contacts the “discoverer” to find out what occurred after the death was
reported.

It is undisputed that Dr. Egbert participated in six suicides in the State of Maryland as
either a Senior Exit Guide or as the members’ only Exit Guide. Dr. Egbert reviewed their
applications and medical records and recommended accepting them as members. Dr. Egbert

attended their suicide rehearsals. He held each member’s hands and talked to him or her. Each

3
 

MARYLAND STATE BOARD * BEFORE JENNIFER M. CARTER JONES,
OF PHYSICIANS * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
V. * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE OF
LAWRENCE D. EGBERT, M.D., * ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
RESPONDENT i. OAH CASE NO.: DHMH-SBP-71-13-19027
LICENSE NO.: D16409 *
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *
PROPOSED DECISION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
FINDINGS OF FACT
DISCUSSION
CONCLUSION
PROPOSED ORDER
STATEMENT OF THE CASE

 

On or about November 18, 2012, Maryland’s State Board of Physicians (the Board or SBP)
issued charges (the Charges) against Lawrence D. Egbert, M.D. (the Respondent). The SBP
specifically alleged that the Respondent acted as the Medical Director for Final Exit Network (the
Organization or FEN), a right to die organization, and participated in assisted suicides in violation of
section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Annotated Code of Maryland Health Occupations Article.

On July 15, 2013, the Respondent filed a Motion to Dismiss the Charges. On August 1,
2013, the Board filed the State’s Opposition to Respondent’s Motion to Dismiss. On August 14,
2013, the Respondent filed a Reply to the Opposition to Respondent’s Motion to Dismiss. On
August 28, 2013, I conducted a hearing on the Motion at the Office of Administrative Hearings
(OAH), 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland. Lee Baylin, Esquire, represented the

Respondent. Victoria H. Pepper, Assistant Attorney General, represented the State. On
September 18, 2013, I issued a decision denying the Respondent’s Motion to Dismiss the
Charges.

On September 26, 2013, I conducted a hearing on the merits at the OAH. Once again, Lee
Baylin, Esquire, represented the Respondent and Victoria H. Pepper, Assistant Attorney General,
represented the State.

The contested case provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, the Board’s Rules of
Procedure and OAH’s Rules of Procedure govern procedure in this case. Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2009 & Supp. 2013); Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR)
10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.

ISSUES

 

1. Did the Respondent engage in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of
section 14-404(a)(3(ii) of the Maryland Annotated Code’s Health Occupations Article?
2. If so, what sanction is appropriate?
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
Exhibits
The State submitted the following documents, which unless otherwise noted, I admitted
into evidence as the exhibits numbered below:
1. February 29, 2012 letter from the Board to the Respondent, with attached May 21,
2011 Baltimore Sun article entitled “Baltimore Doctor Helps the Il] Commit Suicide.”
2. March 8, 2012 letter from the Respondent to the Board, with attached completed
Information Form, dated March 8, 2012
3. January 19, 2012 Washington Post article, entitled “After the Death of Jack
Kevorkian, Lawrence Egbert is the new Public Face of American Assisted Suicide.”

4. FEN records for Patient A, including correspondence and medical records
10.

1

—

12.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

9;

20.

2

_

22.

2

Ww

24.

25.

26.

May 27, 2008 Death Certificate for Patient A
FEN records for Patient B, including correspondence and medical records
November 20, 2008 Death Certificate for Patient B

FEN records for Patient C, including correspondence and medical records

. October 16, 2008 Death Certificate for Patient C

FEN records for Patient D, including correspondence and medical records

. July 18, 2008 Death Certificate for Patient D

FEN records for Patient E, including correspondence and medical records

. August 7, 2006 Death Certificate for Patient E

FEN records for Patient F, including correspondence and medical records
May 28, 2004 Death Certificate for Patient F

Excerpts from Final Exit — The Practicalities of Self-Deliverance and Assisted
Suicide for the Dying (3" Ed. 2010)

2007 First Responder and Exit Guide Training Manual

Not offered

Not offered

Not admitted

. Transcript of Respondent’s April 12, 2012 interview with the Board

Curriculum Vitae — Henry Silverman, M.D., M.A.

. October 5, 2012 report by Dr. Silverman

January 25, 2012 report by Dr. Silverman
American Medical Association — Medical Ethics — Opinion 2.211 — Physician
Assisted Suicide

Oregon Statute ORS 127.800 et seq.
27. November 28, 2012 Charges against the Respondent under the Maryland Medical

Practices Act
The Respondent did not offer any exhibits for admission into evidence.
Testimony
The State presented the testimony of Dr. Henry Silverman, who was accepted as an
expert in internal medicine with subspecialties in medical ethics as it relates to end-of-life issues.
The Respondent did not testify or offer the testimony of any witnesses.

FINDINGS OF FACT

 

The Parties stipulate to the following facts:

1. The charges in this case are limited to section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Annotated Code of
Maryland Health Occupations Article.

2. Atall relevant times, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland. The Respondent is Board-certified in anesthesiology, and was originally licensed
to practice medicine in Maryland on July 15, 1952.

3. The Respondent has retired from the practice of anesthesiology.

4. The Respondent was one of the founders of the FEN.

5. The FEN is a non-profit organization granted 501(c)(3) status as an educational organization
by the United States Revenue Service.

6. The Organization provides information and advice to its members! who choose to hasten
their deaths by the inhalation of inert gas (helium). The Organization is a national

organization with volunteers located throughout the country.

 

' Throughout the Organization information’s and in the documentary evidence, those who sought FEN’s assistance
with terminating their lives are sometimes referred to as “patients” and other times referred to as “members.”
Throughout this decision, I shall use both of those terms.

4
7. Organization literature states, “[t]he Organization is the only organization in the United
States that will support individuals who are not ‘terminally ill’ — six months or less to live —
to hasten their death [;].” . . . No other organization in the US has the courage to make
this commitment.” [Emphasis in original.] These sentiments are echoed in the slogan:
“[{The Organization] will serve many whom other organization may turn away.” (State Ex.
27)

8. In order to obtain advice from the Organization, an applicant must become an Organization
member by paying a small fee. The applicant then submits medical documentation of his or
her condition and a letter written by the applicant which, according to the Organization
training manual, subjectively detail[s] their condition, the length of time they’ ve had it, the
effect it’s had on their quality of life and any other information that has led to their decision
to exit.” The training manual states that an applicant is also required to read a book titled
“Final Exit” by Derek Humphry. (State Ex. 17)

9. In his capacity as Medical Director, the Respondent evaluated the records submitted by
applicants to determine whether the applicant’s request for advice would be accepted.

10. When interviewed by Board staff, the Respondent stated that if he was “uncomfortable with
the psychology of the members, I could consult with the [Organization] psychologist.”

1

_

- In addition to being the Organization’s Medical Director, the Respondent was also a Senior
Exit Guide.

12. The Exit Guide’s function is to provide the member and the member’s family with

information about the Member’s suicide, or “death event,” the term used by the

Organization. The Exit Guide and the member discuss family members or friends who may

wish to be present and who will maintain confidentiality regarding the circumstances of the
13.

15;

17.

18.

19.

20.

2

=

member’s death. The Exit Guide discusses the logistics and timing of “discovering” the
member’s body and reporting the death. The Exit Guide also rehearses the death event with
the member.

The Organization does not require that Exit Guides and Senior Exit Guides be physicians,

and to the Respondent’s knowledge, he was the only physician who acted in such capacity.

. The inhaled helium displaces the oxygen in the body and initiates brain death.

After a few minutes, the Exit Guide announces that death has occurred. After the tanks have
emptied, the Exit Guide removes the bag, detaches it from the tanks and places the tanks in

their boxes, ready to be disposed of.

. The Exit Guide reminds the person who has agreed to “discover” the body to wait at least

two hours before making the discovery. The passage of time permits the body to cool and
discourages attempts at resuscitation.

Death by inhalation of helium is not detectable when the body is autopsied.

The Respondent was present at six suicides in Maryland. Four occurred in 2008, one in
2006 and one in 2004.

None of the six suicide members had a terminal condition, in that they were not facing
imminent death within six months.

When interviewed by Board staff, the Respondent stated that he was an Exit Guide at each
of the suicides and that he “always” performed a rehearsal of the procedure prior to the
“death event.”

I find the following additional facts by a preponderance of the Evidence:

. First Responders are Organization members who initially interview individuals who are

interested in becoming an Organization members and ending their lives.
22. The Organization created a document entitled “First Responder and Exit Guide Training
Chicago IL, June 08 -10 2007” (Training Manual) which provides instructions for
Organization Exit Guides and First Responders. (State Ex. 17).

23. The Training Manual includes the following language:

Patients frequently express concern over obtaining their medical records. They’ re
entitled to these records by law, but it isn’t unusual for them to say that their doctor
will question the need for the records and they’re reluctant to approach a doctor they
don’t feel confident about. Sometimes doctors will mail or fax records only to
another doctor. If that should be the case, as a last resort, tell the patient to ask the
doctor to send the records to:

Lawrence Egbert, MD, MPH

814 Powers Street

Baltimore, MD 21211

The record can also be faxed to him. . . . If a doctor questions why the patient is
sending records to Baltimore, tell him/her to say that Dr. Egbert is a specialist in
pain management (maybe the patient found him on the Internet) and consults
throughout the country on difficult cases (he is and he does, and people do come
across his name on the Internet). As an alternative, the patient may say that other
doctors have asked for information the patient can’t recall so he/she has started
keeping copies of records.

(State Ex. 17).

24. The Organization has produced a document entitled “Procedure for Hastened Death Using
Inert Gas,” which details the procedure and materials the Organization must use to
effectuate a member’s death by helium. That document states that was written “[b]y Richard
MacDonald, M_D. edited by Lawrence D. Egbert, MD, MPH.” (State Ex. 17)

25. As part of the Organization’s written material, the Respondent wrote a document entitled
“Voluntary Stopping of Eating and Drinking (VSED).” The document details the
effectiveness of VSED for individuals who wish to end their lives. The Respondent used his
professional designation, M.D., as the named author of that document. (State Ex. 17)

26. As Medical Director for the Organization, the Respondent received and evaluated the

medical records for each member who wished to end his or her life along with a copy of a

Z
2].

letter from the member “stating why life had become only suffering and was no longer
bearable.” It was the Respondent’s responsibility to “evaluate the care they were receiving.”
(State Ex. 1; State Ex. 17).

On April 12, 2012, Heather McLaughlin, Board Lead Compliance Analyst, conducted an
interview of the Respondent. During the interview, the Respondent reported that he
reviewed the medical records of all of the members who solicited the Organization for its
assistance with suicide. When Ms. Laughlin asked the Respondent to further explain how he
evaluated individual patients, the Respondent replied as follows:

So, for example, if they want - - I’ll give you a good example that we’ve had.
A patient who had terrible pain and I realized that she was not being taken care of,
Just from the paperwork. All patients had to send in their medical records so that I
could read their medical records.

So I called the patient up and said, you’re not getting pain care, you know.
And she said, tell me about it. So she was quite upset about it, and I said, well, why
don’t you - - this is a long conversation that lam speeding up - - but why don’t you
tell your doctors that this doctor from Hopkins will be glad to tell him how to do it
right.

So - - and that was a bit of an overstatement of my credentials. But - - so I
called her up about a month later. She didn’t call back or anything. And she said, no,
I’m not going to die now, I’m okay, I’ve been taken care of, I’m okay. It’s tolerable,
the pain is tolerable. And I said well you jacked up the dose of the morphine then. I
said, did you tell him that? And she said, yes. And I said, you’re getting the proper
dose.

(State Ex. 21).

28.

29.

30.

The Organization requires patients to obtain the helium tanks and bag on his or her own.
The Organization’s training manual stresses that Exit Guides are prohibited from obtaining
this equipment for the patient.

Senior Exit Guides and sometimes a second Guide are present at the death event and in most
cases, dispose of the helium tanks and other equipment used for the patient’s suicide.

The Respondent was an Exit Guide in at least six Suicides, including the suicides of Member

A., amale (DOD: May 25, 2008); Member B., a female. (DOD: November 20, 2008);
Member C., a female (DOD: October 15, 2008); Member D, a female (DOD: July 16,
2008); Member E, a female (DOD: August 5, 2006); and Member R, a female (DOD: May
27, 2004).

31. The cause of death as stated on each patient’s death certificate is a medical condition from

=

which the patient had suffered, such as Parkinson’s disease or coronary artery disease.

32. The Respondent knew that each patient’s death was caused by the inhalation of helium and
he knew that none of the patients’ death certificates would state that helium inhalation was
the cause of the patients’ death. (State Ex. 17).

33. The American Medical Association (AMA) issued Opinion 2.211 — Physician-Assisted
Suicide, which provides as follows:

Physician-assisted suicide occurs when a physician facilitates a patients’s death by
providing the necessary means and/or information to enable patient to perform the
life-ending act (e.g. the physician provides sleeping pills and information about the
lethal dose, while aware that the patient may commit suicide).

It is understandable, though tragic, that some patients in extreme duress — such as
those suffering from a terminal, painful, debilitating illness — may come to decide
that death is preferable to life. However, allowing physicians to participate in
assisted suicide would cause more harm than good. Physician-assisted suicide is
fundamentally incompatible with the physician’s role as a healer, would be difficult
or impossible to control, and would pose serious societal risks.

(State Ex. 25).

DISCUSSION

 

I. The Applicable Law and Board Charges.
The Board may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or

revoke a license if the licensee:

(2) Fraudulently or deceptively uses a license;
(3) Is guilty of:
(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[.]

9
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (Supp. 2012).

The State, as the moving party, has the burden of proof by a preponderance of the
evidence to demonstrate that the Respondent violated the Statutory section at issue. Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-217 (2009); Md. Code Ann. Health Occ., § 14-405(b)(2) (2009); Comm’r
of Labor and Indus. v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 344 Md. 17, 34 (1996) citing Bernstein v. Real
Estate Comm'n, 221 Md. 221, 231 (1959). See also Schaffer v. Weast, 546 U.S. 49, 56 - 57
(2005).

I. The Parties’ Positions.

The State argued that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine by advocating for and participating in actual suicides of at least six of the Organization’s
members. Particularly, the State argued that in his role as medical director, the Respondent
undertook responsibilities that constitute the practice of medicine. That is, as Medical Director for
the Organization, the Respondent personally evaluated the medical records submitted by
members to determine whether the request for assisted suicide would be accepted. Based upon
his medical expertise, the State asserts that the Respondent determined the appropriateness of
assisting members with their desire to end their lives. In fact, argues the Board, the Respondent
referred to those he agreed to assist as “patients.”

In support of its position, the State offered the testimony of Dr. Silverman, who was
accepted as an expert in internal medicine, with a subspecialty in pulmonology, critical care
medicine, and medical ethics as it relates to end-of-life issues. The State based its charges upon
Dr. Silverman’s written reports, his testimony, documentary evidence of the Respondent’s
actions as the FEN Medical Director, and AMA Opinion - 2.211 — Physician-Assisted Suicide.

The Respondent argued that his actions did not occur within “the practice of medicine.”

Particularly, the Respondent argues that his activities related to the Organization did not involve

10
of the members died from asphyxiation due to helium inhalation. After each member died, Dr.
Egbert removed the hoods and helium tanks and disposed of the helium tanks. In each of these
suicides, the death certificates did not list asphyxiation, helium inhalation, or suicide as the cause
of death. Dr. Egbert stipulated that in each of these suicides, the FEN member was not
terminally ill, that is, would not have died within six months. The six FEN members for whom
Dr. Egbert acted as an Exit Guide are as follows:

1. Patient A was a 68-year-old man with Parkinson’s disease who suffered from gait
disturbances and mental fogginess. He died on May 25, 2008. His death certificate states
Coronary artery disease due to Parkinson’s disease as the cause of death.

2. Patient B was a 71-year-old woman suffering from progressive Multiple Sclerosis
for 45 years complicated by axonal polyneuropathy. She died on November 20, 2008. Her death
certificate states acute myocardial infarction and multiple sclerosis as the cause of death.

3. Patient C was an 85-year-old woman with a medical history of significant
peripheral vascular disease, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, coronary artery disease, atrial
fibrillation s/p pacemaker placement, anemia, and depression with significant functional
impairment. She stated that her reason for suicide was to leave enough money to establish a trust
to care for her son with Asperger syndrome. She died on October 15, 2008. Her death
certificate states that she died from heart failure and aortic valvular disease.

4. Patient D was an 82-year-old woman with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
with increasing difficulty in breathing. She died on July 16, 2008. Her death certificate states

that she died from right heart failure, emphysema, and smoking.
diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions for the members, or any other attribute of the
practice of medicine. Therefore, regardless of the ethical implications of his actions, the Board has
no basis to revoke his medical license under section 14-404(a)(3)(i).

The Respondent also argued that his actions within the Organization constitute free
association which is protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution
The Practice of Medicine

According to section 14-101 of the Health Occupations Article “practice medicine” is
defined as follows:

(0) Practice medicine. --
(1) "Practice medicine" means to engage, with or without compensation, in medical:

(i) Diagnosis;
(ii) Healing;
(iii) Treatment; or
(iv) Surgery.

(2) "Practice medicine" includes doing, undertaking, professing to do, and attempting
any of the following:

(i) Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing for, or removing any
physical, mental, or emotional ailment or supposed ailment of an individual:

1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that is exercised or
invoked by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or

2. By appliance, test, drug, operation, or treatment;
(ii) Ending of a human pregnancy; and
(iii) Performing acupuncture as provided under § 14-504 of this title.
(3) "Practice medicine" does not include:
(i) Selling any nonprescription drug or medicine;
(ii) Practicing as an optician; or

(iii) Performing a massage or other manipulation by hand, but by no other means.

 

In my September 18, 2013 Ruling on the Respondent’s Motion to Dismiss, I found that his actions within the
Organization do not constitute free association protected by the First Amendment. As the Respondent offered
nothing new regarding this position, my tuling regarding that argument stands.

11
The rules of statutory construction been often presented by the Maryland Court of

Appeals as follows:

The cardinal rule of statutory interpretation is to ascertain and effectuate the real
and actual intent of the Legislature. A court's primary goal in interpreting
statutory language is to discern the legislative purpose, the ends to be
accomplished, or the evils to be remedied by the statutory provision under
scrutiny.

To ascertain the intent of the General Assembly, we begin with the normal, plain
meaning of the statute. If the language of the statute is unambiguous and clearly
Consistent with the statute's apparent purpose, our inquiry as to the legislative
intent ends ordinarily and we apply the statute as written without resort to other
rules of construction. We neither add nor delete language so as to reflect an intent
not evidenced in the plain and unambiguous language of the statute, and we do
not construe a statute with forced or subtle interpretations that limit or extend its
application.

We, however, do not read statutory language in a vacuum, nor do we confine
strictly our interpretation of a statute's plain language to the isolated section alone.
Rather, the plain language must be viewed within the context of the statutory
scheme to which it belongs, considering the purpose, aim, or policy of the
Legislature in enacting the statute. We presume that the Legislature intends its
enactments to operate together as a consistent and harmonious body of law, and,
thus, we seek to reconcile and harmonize the parts of a statute, to the extent
possible consistent with the statute's object and scope. Where the words of a
statute are ambiguous and subject to more than one reasonable interpretation, or
where the words are clear and unambiguous when viewed in isolation, but
become ambiguous when read as part of a larger statutory scheme, a court must
resolve the ambiguity by searching for legislative intent in other indicia, including
the history of the legislation or other relevant sources intrinsic and extrinsic to the
legislative process. In resolving ambiguities, a court considers the structure of the
statute, how it relates to other laws, its general purpose and relative rationality and
legal effect of various competing constructions.

In every case, the statute must be given a reasonable interpretation, not one that is
absurd, illogical or incompatible with common sense.

Gardner v. State, 420 Md. 1, 8-9 (Md. 2011) (internal quotation marks and citations
omitted).

A clear reading of section 14-101 reveals that the practice of medicine focuses on
providing care for patients with the goal of healing those patients, or relieving them from

symptoms of an ailment or condition. Arguably, assisting an individual with ending his or her
ymp guably, 8 &

12
life, particularly, if that individual has been diagnosed with a degenerative or painful medical
condition, could be interpreted as the removal of “any physical, mental, or emotional ailment or
supposed ailment of an individual.” That is, upon the patient’s death, he or she would be relieved
of the medical condition; however, such an interpretation of section 14-101 is implausible and
incompatible with the definition of “practic[ing] medicine.”

The statutory construction doctrine of ejusdem generis dictates that "when general words
in a statute follow the designation of particular things or classes of subjects or persons, the
general words will usually be construed to include only those things or persons of the same class
or general nature as those specifically mentioned." Haile v. State, 431 Md. 448, 458 (Md. 2013).
Section 14-101 defines the of “practice medicine” to include the “ending of a human pregnancy.”
Certainly, the inclusion of what has been and continues to be a controversial medical practice
was intended to make clear that the ending of human pregnancy is acknowledged as a legal form
of authorized medical practice in the State of Maryland. Pursuant to the doctrine of ejusdem
generis, therefore, the omission of assisted suicide, which is prohibited under Maryland law? and
certainly controversial, makes it clear that the legislature did not intend the definition of
“practice of medicine” to include assisted suicide.

However, the fact that participation in assisted suicide, generally, does not constitute the
practice of medicine does not necessarily merit the conclusion that any act that a physician
undertakes with the goal of assisting an individual or individuals achieve death also must be
deemed as outside of the practice of medicine. Indeed, Maryland courts have made it clear that
the actions of a physician constitute the practice of medicine when there is a nexus between the
physician’s actions and the provision of treatment to patients. McDonnell v. Comm’n on Medical

Discipline, 301 Md. 426 (1984); Finucan v. Md. Bd. of Physician Quality Assur., 380 Md. 577

 

3 See Md. Code Annotated, Crim. Law § 3-102 (2012).

13
(2004); Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59 (1999); Cornfeld v. State
Bd. of Physicians, 174 Md. App. 456, cert. denied, 400 Md. 647 (2007); and Kim v. Md. State
Bad. of Physicians, 423 Md. 523 (2011).

By contrast, the Maryland Court of Appeals has made it clear that the practice of
medicine does not include acts that are only tangentially-related to the responsibilities and
practice as a physician. McDonnell v. Comm'n on Medical Discipline, 301 Md. 426 (1984).

Particularly, the McDonnell Court held that the actions of a physician, who attempted to
intimidate experts scheduled to testify against him in a medical malpractice case, did not occur in
the practice of medicine. In so holding, the Court explained that although “Dr. McDonnell’s act
was ‘related to his professional practice . . . [it] was insufficient to bring his conduct within the
Statute’s requirement that the conduct occur in his practice as a physician.” Jd. at 437. The Court
further elucidated that the physician’s actions were aimed at prevailing at an adjudicative matter
and had only a “general or associative relationship to the physician in his capacity as a member
of the medical profession.” Essentially the Court opined that the adjudication of McDonnell’s
medical malpractice case was tangential to the work he performed as a physician.

After the McDonnell Court made clear that the physician’s conduct in that case did not
constitute the practice of medicine, in Finucan v. Md. Bad. of Physicians Quality Assur. and
Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59 (1999), the Maryland Court of
Appeals addressed when a physician’s actions may be considered to have occurred within the
practice of medicine. Particularly, the Court held that a physician violates section 14-404 (a)(3)
when he displays unprofessional conduct within the medical setting, or while he is generally
performing tasks that are integral to the practice of medicine, whether or not the conduct itself is

medical in nature.

14
In Banks, a physician was charged with sexually harassing three female colleagues while
on extended duty at a hospital. The Board determined that each of the instances of sexual
harassment occurred while the physician was engaged in the practice of medicine “because his
presence in the hospital and on-call status clearly involved more than merely a general or
associative relationship with his practice as a physician.” Banks, 354 Md. at 66. The physician
appealed and the Circuit Court for Carroll County, Maryland, affirmed the Board’s
determination, reasoning that section 14-403(a)(3) did not require face-to-face dealing with
patients to constitute the practice of medicine. Rather, because the physician was on his shift at
the hospital, in uniform, and present at the hospital for the sole purpose of practicing medicine,
the physician’s acts occurred in the practice of medicine. Id. at 66.

The Court of Special Appeals reversed the Circuit Court regarding two of the instances of
sexual harassment because they did not occur “during the diagnosis, care, or treatment of
patients.” Banks v. Bd. or Physicians Quality Assur., 116 Md. App. 249, 262 (1996).*

The Court of Appeals granted certiorari on the matter and reversed the Court of Special
Appeals decision with regard to the two instances of sexual harassment,° reasoning that

[t]he Board could reasonably hold that Dr. Banks’ conduct of sexually harassing

hospital employees was within the practice of medicine because he was on duty

and in the working areas of the hospital. When on duty, Dr. Banks was

responsible for admitting patients, caring for patients and assisting in the

operating room and emergency department. He was not free to leave, and he was

expected to be available at all times. When Dr. Banks was on duty he was there

for the purpose of practicing medicine; i.e. for the ‘diagnosis, care, or treatment of
patients.’

 

‘The Court affirmed the Circuit Court’s finding regarding one instance of harassment because it occurred as the
physician was using an addressograph machine and requesting a patient record when the harassment occurred. As
both of those actions were “necessary procedures and . . . part of treatment of the patient,” the Court of Special
Appeals determined that the harassment occurred in the course of the practice of medicine. Id. at 263.

> The Court of Appeals affirmed the finding that the third instance of sexual harassment occurred in the practice of
medicine.

15
Banks, 354 Md. at 72 (quoting McDonnell, 301 Md. at 437). In so holding, the Court
distinguished the circumstances in Banks from those in McDonnell and offered the following

reasoning:

On one previous occasion this Court examined what is embraced by the phrase “in
the practice of medicine." In McDonnell v. Comm'n on Medical Discipline, 301
Md. 426, 429-430, 483 A.2d 76, 77-78 (1984), we considered the question of
whether a physician's attempt to intimidate adverse expert witnesses scheduled to
testify against him in a medical malpractice case was "immoral conduct of a
physician in his practice as a physician" in violation of § 14-404(a)(3)'s statutory
predecessor, Code (1957, 1980 Repl. Vol.), Article 43, § 130(h)(8). We held that,
although Dr. McDonnell's conduct was "improper and not to be condoned," it was
“not censurable under § [14-404(a)(3)]." McDonnell, 301 Md. at 434, 483 A.2d at
80. The Court agreed that Dr. McDonnell's act was "related to his professional
practice" but was insufficient to bring his conduct within the statute's requirement
that the conduct occur in his “practice as a physician." 301 Md. at 437, 483 A.2d
at 81. We held that immoral conduct merely committed during the term of
licensure or having only a "general or associative relationship to the physician in
his capacity as a member of the medical profession" is not within the language of
the statute. 301 Md. at 436, 483 A.2d at 81. Rather, the "application of [§ 14-
404(a)(3)] is directly tied to the physician's conduct in the actual performance of
the practice of medicine, i.e., in the diagnosis, care, or treatment of patients." 301
Md. at 437, 483 A.2d at 81.

Banks, 354 Md. at 70-71.

Particularly, the Court explained that “the primary factors that distinguish the Banks case
from McDonnell were that Dr. Banks was on duty at the hospital, and was present in the working
areas of the hospital.” Jd. at 74. The Court further explained that “[iJn other cases considering
whether a physician’s conduct was within the statutory definition of “in the practice of
medicine,” a critical factor has been whether the conduct occurred while the physician was
performing a task integral to his or her medical practice.” Jd. The Court refused to apply “a
narrow definition of the practice of medicine.” Id.

In Finucan, a case relatively similar to Banks, a physician engaged in sexual relationships

with patients and argued that his conduct did not occur in the practice of medicine because he

16
was not treating the patients at the time of his sexual encounters with them. The Court of
Appeals disagreed.

Relying on its decision in Banks, the Court reiterated its refusal to apply a technical or
narrow definition of the “practice of medicine” and concluded that “Finucan used his
professional skills and his knowledge of his three female patients’ personal and familial
situations to play upon their emotional vulnerabilities, even if they facially consented to sexual
relationships. Finucan, 380 Md. at 596. Ultimately, the Court explained that conduct “may
indicate an unfitness to practice medicine if it raises reasonable concerns that an individual
abused, or may abuse, the status of being a physician in such a way as to harm patients or
diminish standing of the medical profession in the eyes of a reasonable member of the general
public.” Jd. at 601.

The Court of Special Appeals echoed the Banks and Finucan Court’s reasoning of what
constitutes conduct in the practice of medicine in Cornfeld v. State Bd. of Physicians, 174 Md.
App. 456, cert. denied, 400 Md. 647 (2007). In that case, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City
affirmed the Board’s determination that the Appellant physician had engaged in unprofessional
conduct in violation of section 14-404(a)(3) of the Health Occupations Article when he made
false statements to hospital peer reviewers and Board investigators related to the mechanical
settings for a surgical instrument he used on a patient. In making its determination, the Court did
not simply categorize Dr. Cornfeld’s behavior as improper because he was in the hospital setting.
To the contrary, the Court recognized that like McDonnell, the conduct at issue took the form of
statements made or actions taken during an adjudicatory review or proceeding. However, unlike
the case in McDonnell, in which the focus or the impetus of the physician’s acts were to prevail

in an adjudicatory hearing generally unrelated to his practice of medicine, Dr. Cornfeld’s false or

17
misleading statements directly related to a procedure he had recently performed on a patient and
shifted blame from himself to other hospital staff.

The Court of Special Appeals affirmed the Circuit Court, explaining that “the touchstone
for determining whether misconduct occurred ‘in the practice of medicine’ must be whether it is
‘sufficiently intertwined with patient care’ to pose a threat to patients or the medical profession.”
Id. at 474 (quoting Banks, 354 Md. at 76-77).

In this vein, the Cornfeld Court echoed the Court of Appeals’ reasoning in McDonnell
that the nature and effect of a particular act of professional misconduct determines whether it
occurred in the practice of medicine, and that “[m]isconduct reasonably may be considered to be
in the practice of medicine when it ‘relates to the effective delivery of patient care.’” Cornfeld,
174 Md. App. at 477-78. Considering the Court of Appeals’ rejection of the “narrow view” of
the practice of medicine in Banks and Finucan, the Court of Special Appeals found Dr.
Cornfeld’s actions sufficiently tied to the practice of medicine to warrant the charges by the
Board.

The Court of Appeals amplified its interpretation of “in the practice of medicine” in Kim
v. Md. State Bd. of Physicians, 423 Md. 523 (2011), in which the Court of Appeals affirmed the
Board’s determination that the physician’s actions occurred in the practice of medicine when he
willfully failed to report the pendency of a malpractice action on his application for renewal of
his license. Relying on Finucan, the Kim Court explained that ‘in the practice of medicine’
applies not only to diagnosing and treating patients, but also to ‘misconduct relating to the
effective delivery of patient care.” Jd. at 541 (quoting Finucan, 380 Md. at 597).

It is clear that the Respondent's actions in this case do not fit neatly into any of the
scenarios at issue in McDonnell, Banks, Finucan, Cornfeld or Kim. As I have stated, the

Respondent’s participation in assisted suicide, while illegal, does not, alone, constitute the

18
practice of medicine. In fact, his participation in assisted suicide is antithetical to the long-
standing prevailing purpose of medical practice to treat and heal patients and/or to make patients
comfortable. However, aspects or actions the Respondent undertook as Medical Director of the
FEN do fall within the definition of the practice of medicine.

First, the Respondent does not dispute that he reviewed medical records to ensure that
patients were suffering to the extent that they would be approved for assisted suicide by the FEN.
Although the FEN had a three-member medical panel, the Respondent admitted in his April 12,
2012 interview with Board Compliance Analyst, Heather McLaughlin, that as Medical Director,
he reviewed and evaluated all of the prospective patients’ medical documents and made the
determination whether the individual was suffering sufficiently to qualify for FEN’s assistance
with suicide. Certainly, such a review of the medical documentation provided by members to
determine whether the person meets medical criteria for additional treatment is an action
physicians undertake as part of their practice of medicine.

Ihave already determined that assisted suicide does not constitute the practice of
medicine. It logically follows that if the Respondent reviewed medical documentation as a
formality — that is, if the outcome of his review of those documents always resulted in his
acceptance of the member’s request for assisted suicide, regardless of other available medical
options or treatments of the members’ underlying ailments, then I might find that the review was
inextricably linked to the Respondent’s participation in assisted suicide in furtherance of his
personal ethical involvement with FEN and I might find that his medical document review did
not constitute the practice of medicine.

However, it is clear that the Respondent sometimes reviewed patients’ medical records
and made diagnoses with an eye toward healing those patients or improving their lives rather

than approving them for FEN-assisted suicide. As the Respondent explained during his April 12,

19
2012 interview with Ms. McLaughlin, as the Medical Director for FEN, he was assigned to review
“complicated cases.” When Ms. McLaughlin asked the Respondent to elaborate, he gave the
following example of a “complicated case”:

A patient who had terrible pain and I realized that she was not being taken care of,

just from the paperwork. All patients had to send in their medical records so that I

could read their medical records.

So I called the patient up and said, you’re not getting pain care, you know.

And she said, tell me about it. So she was quite upset about it, and I said, well, why

don’t you - - this is a long conversation that I am speeding up - - but why don’t you

tell your doctors that this doctor from Hopkins will be glad to tell him how to do it

right.

So - - and that was a bit of an overstatement of my credentials. But - - so I

called her up about a month later. She didn’t call back or anything. And she said, no,

I’m not going to die now, I’m okay, I’ve been taken care of, I’m okay. It’s tolerable,

the pain is tolerable. And I said well you jacked up the dose of the morphine then. I

said, did you tell him that? And she said, yes. And I said, you’re getting the proper

dose.

As this passage demonstrates, the Respondent advised this patient to tell her practicing
physician that he, a doctor from Johns Hopkins Hospital,® had advised her to increase her pain
medication. In other words, the Respondent held himself out not only as the Medical Director of
FEN, but as a physician. He recommended a course of treatment, advised the patient to convey
his prescribed treatment to her treating physician, and stood prepared to interact with her
physician in support of his prescription of increased pain medication. The Respondent’s actions
in reviewing medical records to determine whether patients were sufficiently suffering, and
diagnosing the patient’s pain and prescribing increased pain medication fall squarely within the
context of the practice of medicine. Unlike McDonnell, in which the Respondent’s actions of
threatening a witness in a malpractice case was ancillary to the diagnosis, treatment, or care of ,

patients, the Respondent's actions, although performed as the Medical Director of an

organization that is generally antithetical to the practice of medicine, still bears the hallmark of

 

° The Respondent indicated in his statement to Ms. McLaughlin that his representation that he was a doctor at Johns
Hopkins Hospital was inaccurate. Indeed, the Respondent presented no evidence that he is a physician working at
Johns Hopkins Hospital.

20
5. Patient F was an 87-year-old woman with worsening monopolar depression. She
died on August 5, 2006. Her death certificate lists atherosclerosis, cardiovascular disease as the
causes of death.

6. Patient G was a 76-year-old woman with degenerative ataxia not amenable to
treatment, progressive symptoms and was diagnosed with depression. She died on May 27,
2004. Her death certificate states that she died from degenerative cerebeller disorder.

ANALYSIS

The issue in this case is whether Dr. Egbert’s actions as Medical Director of FEN and his
assistance to the suicide of six members of FEN constitutes unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). In the Board’s analysis, the Board
first discusses whether Dr. Egbert’s conduct was “in the practice of medicine,” second, whether
his conduct was “unprofessional,” and finally addresses miscellaneous exceptions filed by Dr.
Egbert.

I. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE
A. ALJ’s Proposed Decision and Exceptions

In her proposed decision, the ALJ found that Dr. Egbert engaged in the practice of
medicine based on his review and evaluation of applicants’ medical records. The ALJ, however,
found that Dr. Egbert’s presence and assistance in the members’ suicides was not in the practice
of medicine.

Dr. Egbert filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision’s conclusion that Dr. Egbert’s
review of the medical records was in the practice of medicine. He claims that the review of the
medical records was not within the practice of medicine. He also claimed that he had not

received notice in the charges that his review of medical records was in the practice of medicine.

5
the practice of medicine. The fact that the Respondent provided this “example” of the
complicated cases he handled merits the conclusion that he recommended to other members that
they should seek further medical treatment rather than ending their lives.

It was only after the Respondent reviewed the patients’ medical documents that he was
able to determine whether they would be accepted for FEN’s assistance with suicide. According
to the Respondent, if he determined the patient had other alternatives for treatment, he
recommended against suicide and recommended the appropriate medical treatment.

In light of the admitted fact that the Respondent made medical diagnoses and
determinations that some patients should seek additional or alternative medical treatment, I find
the Respondent’s argument that he did not practice medicine as the Medical Director, and that a
lay person could have served as the Medical Director to be disingenuous. Although it may be
true that a layperson could have served as Medical Director and could have made decisions
accepting patients for assisted suicide based upon criteria established by the FEN, the fact is that
the Respondent is a physician and he clearly used his medical knowledge and expertise in
making medical determinations and prescribed treatment that would help alleviate some of the
symptoms of some patients’ medical conditions. Indeed, in the example the Respondent gave, the
Respondent even suggested that the patient could have her primary care physician consult with
him regarding his advisement that she should seek additional treatment for her pain. I find that
the Respondent’s act of reviewing medical documentation and making determinations regarding
treatment patients should receive constituted medical practice.

Similarly, I find that by virtue of the fact that the Respondent decided when patients
could potentially benefit from medical treatment in lieu of suicide, he also decided when patients
could not potentially benefit from additional medical treatment in lieu of suicide. According to

the unrebutted evidence, the FEN accepted applications and assisted in suicides of patients who

21
were not diagnosed with terminal illnesses. Nevertheless, the Respondent reviewed these
patients’ records and determined that they were eligible for assisted suicide. The fact that the
Respondent occasionally determined that some individuals would benefit from additional
medical or psychological treatment, but determined that others could not benefit from such
treatment, merits the conclusion that he undertook a medical analysis for many, if not each of the
patients he approved for assisted suicide. I find that the Respondent’s review of the medical
documents resulting in assisted suicide cannot be extracted from his review of medical
documents resulting in further medical treatment because at the time of review, either option was
available. The fact that the Respondent ultimately approved assisted suicide in many of the cases
does not take his review of the medical documents outside of the practice of medicine.
Therefore, I find that each time the Respondent reviewed medical records to determine whether
they would be accepted for assistance with suicide, he engaged in the practice of medicine.

It is also clear that the Respondent held himself out as a practicing physician to patients
and other physicians for the purpose of obtaining medical records. According to the FEN training
manual, patients were advised that they could have their medical records sent to the Respondent,
a doctor, if they were uncomfortable obtaining the documents themselves. Particularly, the FEN
training manual provided the following regarding obtaining medical records:

Patients frequently express concern over obtaining their medical records. They’ re

entitled to these records by law, but it isn’t unusual for them to say that their doctor

will question the need for the records and they’ re reluctant to approach a doctor they

don’t feel confident about. Sometimes doctors will mail or fax records only to

another doctor. If that should be the case, as a last resort, tell the patient to ask the .

doctor to send the records to:

Lawrence Egbert, MD, MPH

814 Powers Street

Baltimore, MD 21211

The record can also be faxed to him . . . . If a doctor questions why the patient is

sending records to Baltimore, tell him/her to say that Dr. Egbert is a specialist in
pain management (maybe the patient found him on the Internet) and consults

22
throughout the country on difficult cases (he is and he does, and people do come

across his name on the Internet). As an alternative, the patient may say that other

doctors have asked for information the patient can’t recall so he/she has started

keeping copies of records.

Again, unlike McDonnell, the Respondent is performing a traditional function of a
physician, requesting medical documents from another physician, ostensibly, to review those
documents for the purpose of pain management. Although the Respondent’s actions may not have
occurred within the context of a medical facility, as was the case in Banks and Finucan, his
physician-related actions were inextricably linked to the traditional duties and actions of a
physician. Indeed, it is reasonable to conclude that if a layperson held himself out as a physician,
reviewed and evaluated medical documents, and prescribed additional medical treatment, one could
reasonably interpret that individual’s action as practicing medicine without a license.

Ultimately, I find that the Respondent’s acts including reviewing patients’ medical records,
determining whether they would benefit from additional medical treatment or determining whether
their condition could not benefit from additional medical treatment constituted the practice of
medicine. I further find that holding himself out as a physician to whom other physicians could send
patients’ medical documents, constituted the practice of medicine.

Unprofessional Conduct

The term “unprofessional conduct” is not defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act.
The Court of Appeals has, however, considered that term, in the context of the Maryland Medical
Practice Act, and it determined that “unprofessional conduct” refers to conduct that breaches rules
or ethical codes of professional conduct, or is conduct unbecoming a member in good standing in
the profession. Finucan, 380 Md. at 593.

Much of the State’s position in this case focused on the fact that the Respondent
participated in assisted suicide, and that, generally, his actions were unprofessional. Dr.

Silverman testified that physicians bear an extremely important role when it comes to end-of-life

23
issues. Often, patients who are struggling with end-of-life considerations turn to physicians for
guidance and explanation of their options. According to Dr. Silverman, the physician fulfills a
significant role in the psyche of their patients and, often, patients’ families who are making
decisions about the patient’s end-of-life choices. The physician, opined Dr. Silverman, is charged
with providing the patient and his or her family with options that will result in a dignified death,
with as little pain as possible. The Respondent, however, inappropriately used his authority as a
physician to guide, or at the very least, provide the means for patients to commit suicide. This,
explained Dr. Silverman, is in discord with the primary tenet of medicine — to do no harm.

The State also argued that the Respondent acted unprofessionally because he admittedly
knew that helium was not detectable in the human body and he was aware that the death
certificate for the FEN’s assisted-suicide patients would reflect an erroneous cause of death by
the Medical Examiner and on the death certificate.

As Ihave stated, the actual participation in assisted suicide and the advocacy of assisted
suicide, does not constitute the practice of medicine as those actions are antithetical to the
practice of medicine and are illegal in the State of Maryland. Therefore, generally, whether the
Respondent’s actions were unprofessional within the context of his actual participation in the
assisted suicide of the FEN’s patients is of no consequence because the unprofessional acts must
occur in the practice of medicine.

Because I have found that the participation in assisted suicide, alone, does not constitute
the practice of medicine, I similarly find that the consequences of the Respondent's participation
in assisted suicide can not constitute the practice of medicine. That is, although the Respondent
knew that the patients’ death certificates would reflect an inaccurate cause of death, although
there may be legal implications to that knowledge, his knowledge alone can not create a nexus

between the Respondent’s actions and the practice of medicine. Again, the entire goal of assisted

24
suicide is wholly divorced from the treatment of patients and the practice of medicine.
Accordingly, although the result of his actions would be considered unprofessional, and subject
to sanction under section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) if his actions occurred within the context of his
“practice of medicine,” because his actions in physically participating in the assisted suicide
cannot be classified as the practice of medicine, its result cannot be so classified either.’

Ihave, however, determined that two aspects of the Respondent’s actions as the Medical
Director of FEN constituted the practice of medicine — that is, 1) the Respondent’s review and
evaluation of medical records and the resulting prescribed action following that review; and, 2)
the Respondent’s act of holding himself out as a physician to whom other physicians could
transmit member’s medical records for review. I now turn to whether the Respondent’s actions
related to those two aspects of medical practice were unprofessional.

Medical document review and evaluation

The Respondent does not dispute that he reviewed and evaluated the medical records for
patients who sought FEN’s assistance with terminating their lives. He also acknowledges that
after that review, he occasionally made “suggestions to improve their care.” (State Ex. 1). In
those instances when the Respondent made suggestions to improve care, I cannot determine that
such suggestions were improper or unprofessional because the State has offered no evidence
regarding those patients. However, it is also undisputed — and supported amply by the evidence —
that in many cases, after the Respondent reviewed the medical documentation of members, he
determined that those members were suffering sufficiently to qualify for assisted suicide.
Essentially, in his role as a physician, the Respondent rendered a medical determination and

sanctioned a “remedy” to the patients’ condition that was wholly antithetical to the purpose and

7 Furthermore, if the Board wished to pursue the Respondent for knowingly causing the filing of a false medical
report, it could have charged him with violating section 14-404(a)(12) of the Health Occupations Article, which it
did not do.

25
goal of medicine — to do no harm. I find that the Respondent's action to approve assisted suicide
“abused .. . the status of being a physician in such a way as to harm patients or diminish
standing of the medical profession in the eyes of a reasonable member of the general public.”
Finucan, 380 Md. at 601.

For the foregoing reasons, I find that the only plausible interpretation of the Respondent’s
review and evaluation of medical records and sanctioning assisted suicide is that it was
egregiously unprofessional. He is therefore, subject to sanction under section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of
the Health Occupations Article.

Holding self out as a physician to whom other physicians could send patients’ medical
documents

As I have stated, the Respondent held himself out as a practicing physician to patients
and other physicians for the purpose of obtaining medical records. According to the FEN training
manual, when patients were reluctant to request medical documents from their physicians, or
when their physicians would only fax medical documents to another physician, those patients
were advised that they could have their physicians send their medical documents to the
Respondent in his capacity as a physician. The Exit Guide also advises that patients could tell
their physicians that the Respondent is a specialist in pain management.

Essentially, therefore, the Respondent mislead, or stood ready to mislead fellow physicians
who elected to send medical documents to the Respondent that he would receive medical
documents ostensibly, to treat the patients for their underlying ailments. As has been proven, in
many cases, the Respondent did not treat patients in accord with the practice of medicine, but rather,
sanctioned a course of action that ultimately resulted in the termination of the patients’ lives.

I find that the Respondent’s actions divested - or stood prepared to divest - patients’ treating
physicians from the opportunity to offer their patients alternatives to the life-ending measures

they had chosen. Accordingly, I find that such action or willingness to act in this manner was

26
wholly unprofessional because it prevented - or potentially prevented - those patients’ treating
physicians from effectively delivering patient care. Cornfeld, 174 Md. App. at 477-78.
Proposed Sanction

The State recommends that the Respondent's license be revoked. In support of that
recommended sanction, the State argued that the purpose of the sanction in cases before the Board is
two-fold. First, it serves as a prophylactic against further similar action by the Respondent. Second,
it serves as a deterrent. That is, the sanction serves as notice to physicians that engaging in the
practice of medicine in connection with assisted suicide is unconscionable and will result in the

revocation of one’s medical license.

COMAR 10.32.02.10 and .11 announce the specific sanctions the Board may levy against a
physician found in violation of section 14-404 of the Health Occupations Article. Among other
things, COMAR 10.32.02.10B(6) dictates that the Board may consider aggravating factors when
determining the appropriate. sanction for unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.
Among those aggravating factors is whether “[t]he offense had the potential for or actually did

cause patient harm.”

The evidence in this case certainly proves that the Respondent’s conduct not only resulted in
harm to his patients, but it resulted in many of his patients’ deaths. I agree with the State that it has a
vested interest in making it clear that it will not abide physicians who use their medical practice and
expertise for the purpose of ending human life.

In so finding, I acknowledge the Respondent’s position that any lay person could have *
undertaken the actions that the Respondent undertook as Medical Director for the FEN; the fact
remains, however, that the Respondent took these actions as a physician — performing traditionally

physician-related tasks. The Board has a strong interest in preventing behavior such as the

27
Respondent’s to preserve the integrity of the medical profession as one that uses medical expertise
to heal and treat its patients.
Accordingly, based on the evidence presented in this case, I propose that revocation of the

Respondent's license is an appropriate sanction.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

I conclude that the Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations
Article. I further conclude that because of this violation the Board may discipline the Respondent.
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a).

PROPOSED ORDER

I PROPOSE that the charge filed by the Board on November 18, 2012, against the

Respondent for violation of section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) be UPHELD.

I PROPOSE that the Respondent’s license be REVOKED.

December 23, 2013 / CA We
Date Decision Mailed i L

Administrative Law Judge

    

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS
SSE OO BILE EXCEPTIONS

Any party may file written exceptions to this Proposed Decision with the Board of
Physicians within fifteen days of issuance of the decision. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-216
(2009) and COMAR 10.32.02.03F. The Office of Administrative Hearings is not a party to any
review process.

JCJ/emh
#146840

28
MARYLAND STATE BOARD * BEFORE JENNIFER M. CARTER JONES,

OF PHYSICIANS * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
v. # OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE OF
LAWRENCE D. EGBERT, M.D., * ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
RESPONDENT * OAH CASE NO.: DHMH-SBP-71-13-19027
LICENSE NO.: D16409 “
%* * * * * * * * * * * * * *
FILE EXHIBIT LIST

 

The State submitted the following documents, which unless otherwise noted I admitted
into evidence as the exhibits numbered below:

1. February 29, 2012 letter from the Board to the Respondent, with attached May 21,
2011 Baltimore Sun article entitled “Baltimore doctor helps the ill commit suicide.”

2. March 8, 2012 letter from the Respondent to the Board, with attached completed
Information Form, dated March 8, 2012

3. January 19, 2012 Washington Post article, entitled “After the Death of Jack
Kevorkian, Lawrence Egbert is the new Public Face of American Assisted Suicide.”

4. FEN records for Patient A, including correspondence and medical records

5. May 27, 2008 Death Certificate for Patient A

6. FEN records for Patient B, including correspondence and medical records

7. November 20, 2008 Death Certificate for Patient B

8. FEN records for Patient C, including correspondence and medical records

9. October 16, 2008 Death Certificate for Patient C

10. FEN records for Patient D, including correspondence and medical records

11. July 18, 2008 Death Certificate for Patient D
12.
13.
14.
15.

16.

bye

18.

20.

2

-

22.

23:

24.

25.

26.

27.

FEN records for Patient E, including correspondence and medical records
August 7, 2006 Death Certificate for Patient E

FEN records for Patient F, including correspondence and medical records
May 28, 2004 Death Certificate for Patient F

Excerpts from Final Exit — The Practicalities of Self-Deliverance and Assisted
Suicide for the Dying (3" Ed. 2010)

2007 First Responder and Exit Guide Training Manual

Not offered

. Not offered

Not admitted

. Transcript of Respondent’s April 12, 2012 interview with the Board

Curriculum Vitae ~ Henry Silverman, M.D., M.A.

October 5, 2012 report by Dr. Silverman

January 25, 2012 report by Dr. Silverman

American Medical Association — Medical Ethics — Opinion 2.211 — Physician
Assisted Suicide

Oregon Statute ORS 127.800 et seq.

November 28, 2012 Charges against the Respondent under the Maryland Medical

Practices Act

The Respondent did not offer any exhibits for admission into evidence.
The State filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision’s conclusions that aiding
patients in committing suicide was not the practice of medicine, arguing that the continuum of
Dr. Egbert’s conduct including reviewing the medical records, his participation in the suicide
rehearsal, his conduct during the suicides, and his conduct after the suicides, such as removing
the helium tanks and suicide paraphernalia, should be considered the practice of medicine.

B. Practice of Medicine in Statute and Caselaw

The Medical Practice Act, Health Occ. § 14-101(0) defines practicing medicine as
follows:

(1) “Practice medicine” means to engage, with or without compensation, in

medical:

(i) Diagnosis;
(ii) Healing;

(iii) Treatment; or
(iv) Surgery.

(2) “Practice medicine” includes doing, undertaking, professing to do, and
attempting any of the following:
(i) Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing for, or

removing any physical, mental, or emotional ailment or supposed ailment

of an individual:
1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that is

exercised or invoked by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or
2. By appliance, test, drug, operation, or treatment;
(ii) Ending of a human pregnancy; and
(iii) | Performing acupuncture as provided under § 14-504 of this title.
Maryland courts have not strictly interpreted the statutory definition of practicing
medicine, but rather have applied a broad interpretation of what is “in the practice of medicine”
under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). See Kim v. Maryland State Board of Physicians, 423 Md.
523, 527 (2011) (lying on a renewal application deemed in the practice of medicine); Finucan v.

Maryland Bd. of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577, 597 (2004) (sexual relationship

with three patients deemed in the practice of medicine); Board of Physician Quality Assurance v.
Banks, 354 Md. 59, 66 (1999) (sexual harassment of administrative employees of a hospital
deemed in the practice of medicine); Cornfeld v. State Board of Physicians, 174 Md. App. 456,
468 (2007) (lying to a hospital peer review deemed in the practice of medicine). In deciding
whether Dr. Egbert’s action is in the practice of medicine, the Board must consider whether his
actions were “intertwined with patient care to pose a threat to the patients or the medical
profession.” Cornfeld, 174 Md. App. at 474.
C. Analysis
1. Physician-Patient Relationship

Before the Panel considers whether Dr. Egbert’s actions can be considered intertwined
with patient care, the Panel must determine whether these FEN applicants and members were
patients. The Panel concludes that the FEN applicants and members were Dr. Egbert’s patients.

First, Dr. Egbert considered the FEN members to be his patients. In his letter to Board
staff and throughout his interview with Board staff, Dr. Egbert described the FEN members who
committed suicide as “patients.” In his letter to the Board, Dr. Egbert further stated that he
believed that “if a person has the right to hasten death, a physician has the right to guide him or
her in doing this in a painless and dignified manner.”

Second, Dr. Egbert held himself out to the members as a physician and medical
professional. Dr. Egbert was identified as the Medical Director of FEN and performed the
duties, including deciding which individuals could be approved for membership based on the
severity of their illnesses. In two publications for FEN members, Dr. Egbert was referred to by
his title as an “M.D.” In a document titled “Procedure for Hastened Death Using Inert Gas,” Dr.
Egbert was identified as an editor with his “M.D.” and “M.P.H.” degrees listed after his name.

Additionally, the training manual suggested that if a physician refuses to provide a patient’s

7
medical record, the patient could send the records to “Lawrence Egbert, MD MPH,” and
suggested the patient tell his doctor that “Dr. Egbert” is a pain management specialist. This
training manual refers to the FEN members as patients as well. These documents indicate that
Dr. Egbert and FEN identify their members as patients, and Dr. Egbert is identified to them as a
physician. As discussed further below, the actions taken by Dr. Egbert were also the type of
actions that a physician undertakes, such as reviewing and evaluating patient medical records and
aiding the patients with their end of life decisions.
2. Review of Medical Records to Determine Diagnosis of Conditions,
Severity of Suffering and Possible Treatment Options is “In the Practice
of Medicine.”

Next, the Panel finds that the continuum of Dr. Egbert’s conduct was intertwined with
patient care, that is, involved patient welfare, health, and the potential for patient harm. Dr.
Egbert acted in his role as a physician both when he reviewed the medical records as part of his
duty as medical director of FEN as well as the actions he took as an Exit Guide.

Dr. Egbert argues in his exceptions that lawyers, nurses, insurance adjusters, nutritionists
and pharmacists all review patient records without engaging in the practice of medicine. While
that is true, each professional reviews records for different purposes. The Panel concludes that
Dr. Egbert cannot divest himself of his licensure or his medical training and expertise or his
purpose in reviewing the medical records, in considering whether he has acted as a physician.

The State’s expert, Dr. Silverman, opined that determinations based on medical records
about what disease or illness the person was suffering from, whether the individual had
intolerable suffering, and whether the care the individual was receiving was sufficient are

medical determinations because he made medical assessments about patients conditions. See
Health Occ. § 14-101(0). Dr. Egbert presented no expert testimony to contradict this opinion.
The Panel finds Dr. Silverman’s testimony persuasive.

Further, Dr. Egbert stated in his letter to the Board Senior Compliance Analyst:

My work for the Final Exit Network was to evaluate each person’s request to

hasten death. I received their medical records and a copy of their letters stating

why life had become only suffering and was no longer bearable. /t was my job to

evaluate the care they were receiving and occasionally there were suggestions

made to improve their care. \ had several psychologists for consultation. No one

has suggested that our patients were not suffering severely.
Evaluation of medical care for improved care is one example that demonstrates that his role in
reviewing medical records was in the medical realm, Another example given by Dr. Egbert at
his interview concerned an applicant who wanted to commit suicide because of her pain. After
his review of the file, he determined that her pain was not being properly treated. He advised
the patient that she tell her doctor that she needed more pain medicine, and “this doctor from
Hopkins [Dr. Egbert], will be glad to tell him how to do it right.” As a result of his medical
advice, the applicant withdrew her application for FEN. Such evaluation and advice are
illustrative of the way in which Dr. Egbert’s review of patient files in this context was medical in
nature and within the practice of medicine. Even if the review were not squarely under the
definition of “practicing medicine,” it was certainly “in the practice of medicine” under the broad
interpretation the Court of Appeal applied in Banks. 354 Md. at 66.

Dr. Egbert noted that he sought additional information if he believed that the medical
records were incomplete. Additionally, Dr. Egbert made referrals to psychologists when he was
uncomfortable evaluating the psychology of the patients. Dr. Egbert explained that with regards

to the psychology of patients “[t]he difficulty was that I am not a psychiatrist.” In so doing, Dr.

Egbert used his medical expertise, and when he did not have requisite medical expertise, he
would refer the patient to a specialist, rather than use his lay, non-medical opinion. Referring
patients to specialists is also an element of what physicians do. This also indicates that in non-
psychiatric cases he was using his expertise as a physician to diagnose the patient. Dr. Egbert’s
evaluations were, thus, in the practice of medicine, even in cases that Dr. Egbert approved
without comment.

In sum, Dr. Egbert used his medical expertise to evaluate the medical records, diagnose
the patients, and measure the severity of their conditions, and he gave medical advice about
treatment, when appropriate. When he did not feel comfortable with his diagnosis or felt his
medical knowledge was insufficient, such as the psychological matters, he would refer the
patients to a specialist. The Board, thus, rejects Dr. Egbert’s claim that he did not practice
medicine.

3. Aiding Suicide Concerned Patient Well-being and is In the Practice of
Medicine.

Dr. Egbert was also acting in the practice of medicine in his role as an Exit Guide
because his conduct led to extreme threats to the patient’s well-being by aiding their suicide.
The Maryland Court of Appeals held that suicide is a type of harm to patients that may be
evidence that the physician’s conduct should be considered within the practice of medicine. See
Finucan, 380 Md. at 599 (quoting Finucan, 151 Md. App. at 417) (considering the possibility
that Dr. Finucan’s sexual relationship with a patient caused her apparent suicide attempt as

evidence that Dr. Finucan’s conduct was in the practice of medicine).

10
