Maximo Singer, M.D.
Date: LOT LG
Damean W.E. Freas, DO, Chair
Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Maximo Singer, M.D. License Number:D16386
Case Number: 2019-0924

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), 1 have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D16386, effective
immediately. I understand that upon the surrender of my license, 1 may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et
seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland,

J understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging that I failed to
diagnose and treat a patient’s colon cancer and that the Board initiated an investigation
into the allegations. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and
due to my current health condition and retirement. I recognize that for all purposes
relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated.as proven and that
these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) (fails to
meet appropriate standards forthe delivery of quality medical and surgical care),

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to-
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
Damean W.E. Freas, DO and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Maximo Singer, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very trutvifoule .
Signature on File

Maximg/Singef, M.L.
Damean W.E. Freas, DO and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Maximo Singer, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

state oF WY any lark
CITY/COUNTY OF pew raed

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this J /Aaay of ch , 2019 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Maximo Singer, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was voluntary.

_AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Pairs LE Ml bilhes

Notary Public
My commission expires: 0 /- = Zh of: - a 023

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this lot day of Sephimb-tac, 2019,
I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Maximo Singer, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File
Christine A. Ferry, eog tive "Ur

Maryland Board of es ians
