IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

ROBERT GERNER, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D17422 * Case Number: 2017-0087

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER
BACKGROUND

The Maryland Board of Physicians (the “Maryland Board”) received information
that Robert Gerner, M.D., (the “Respondent”) , License Number
D17422, was disciplined by the California Board of Medicine (the “California Board”).
In a Decision dated July 21, 2016, the California Board disciplined the Respondent by a
Stipulated Surrender of License and Order, wherein the Respondent surrendered his
California medical license.

Based on the above referenced California Board sanction, the Maryland Board has
grounds to charge the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), under H. O. § 14-404(a):

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(24) Was subject to investigation or disciplinary action
by a licensing or disciplinary authority or by a court
of any state of county for an act that would be
grounds for disciplinary action under this section

and the licensee:

(i) Surrendered the license issued by the state or
country to the state or country
The Maryland Board has determined that the acts for which the Respondent was
disciplined in California would be grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-
404(a). The grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-404(a) are as follows:

(3) Is guilty of:

G) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer
review

Based on the action taken by the California Board, the Respondent agrees to enter
into this Consent Order with the Maryland Board of Physicians, consisting of Procedural
Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order of reciprocal action.

I. FINDINGS OF FACT
The Board finds the following:

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent is a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed in
Maryland on or about October 1, 1974.

2. The Respondent engaged in a sexual relationship with a patient during the
time he was her psychiatrist and failed to maintain adequate and accurate medical records
for this patient.

A copy of the California Board’s Decision is attached hereto.
II. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Maryland Board concludes as a

matter of law that the disciplinary action taken by the California Board against the
Respondent was for an act or acts that would be grounds for disciplinary action under
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(24)(i) had those offenses been committed in this state.
III. ORDER
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is hereby:
ORDERED that the Respondent agrees to SURRENDER his license to practice
in Maryland; and it be further
ORDERED that this CONSENT ORDER is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant

to Md. Code Ann. Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 through 4-601 (2014).

04 )o2/201 histo A. Feud
Date Christine A. Farrelly

Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

 

CONSENT

I, Robert Gerner, M.D., acknowledge that I have had the opportunity to consult
with counsel before signing this document. By this Consent, I admit to the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law, and I agree and accept to be bound by this Consent Order
and its conditions and restrictions. I waive any rights I may have had to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.

I acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to
all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I acknowledge the

legal authority and the jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue
and enforce this Consent Order. | also affirm that I am waiving my right to appeal any
adverse ruling of the Board that might have followed any such hearing.

I sign this Consent Order after having had an opportunity to consult with counsel,
without reservation, and-I fully understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms of this Consent Order. I voluntarily sign this Consent Order, and understand its

meaning and effect.
f

$-30 46 a

Date Robert Gerner, M.D.
Respondent

 

state or Cob A
city/CounTy oF |os An~0e. roe Magen

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 30 day of Chas. A m6, before
me, the subscriber, a Notary Public for the State and City/County aforesaid, personally
appeared Robert Gerner, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that the execution of

the foregoing Consent Order was His voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and my notarial seal

Notary Public
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:
ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 

A notary public or other officer completing this
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual
who signed the document to which this certificate is
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or
validity of that document.

 

 

 

State of California
County of Los Angeles

On Avé. 368, BIO before me, Mark C. Glode Notary Public

(insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared 2 2A CORNET

who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

| certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct. , oe
RK C. GLO!
M COMM. #1998870 %
NOTARY PUBLIC - CALIFORNIA
J Los ANGELES COUNTY 4)
Hy Cowan Expires DECEMBER 18, 2016

 
