IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

AKRAM SALIHI, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent. * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number D17536 * Case Number 2219-0178

* * * x * * * * x eo x *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
INTRODUCTION

On July 15, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (“Board”) issued an Order for Summary Suspension, summarily suspending the license
of Akram Salihi, M.D., pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2)
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively required emergency action. On August 17,
2020, Panel A charged Dr. Salihi under the Maryland Medical Practice Act with being
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(4). Dr. Salihi requested an evidentiary hearing to challenge the July 15, 2020 summary
suspension and August 17, 2020 charges. The hearings were consolidated, and, on September 11,
2020, an evidentiary hearing was held before an Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) at the Office
of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”).

Both parties offered testimony from fact witnesses and from expert witnesses who testified
regarding Dr. Salihi’s competence to practice medicine. On December 21, 2020, the ALJ issued
a proposed decision concluding that the summary suspension was proper because the public health,
safety or welfare imperatively required emergency action and that Dr. Salihi was mentally

incompetent to practice medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4). The ALJ
recommended that Dr. Salihi’s license be suspended until he provides information to the Board to
establish that he is mentally competent to resume the practice of medicine.

On December 19, 2020, Dr. Salihi filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision, and the
State filed a response. On December 23, 2020, the State filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed
decision. On February 24, 2021, both parties appeared before Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B” or
“the Panel”) of the Board for an exceptions hearing.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B adopts the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact, numbers 1-23, with the modification
discussed below. See ALJ proposed decision, attached as Exhibit 1.! These facts were proven by
a preponderance of the evidence and are incorporated by reference into the body of this document
as if set forth in full. The Panel also adopts the ALJ’s discussion set forth on pages 10-21, which
is incorporated into the body of this document as if set forth in full.

Dr. Salihi was licensed by the Board to practice medicine in the State of Maryland on
December 19, 1974. His license is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2021. In or around
January 2019, the Board received a complaint from a health insurance company alleging
inappropriate conduct based on an anonymous tip of fraud received by the company. The health
insurance company closed its case with no action, but the Board initiated an independent
investigation of Dr. Salihi based on the complaint. As part of the investigation, Board compliance
analysts conducted a telephone interview with Dr. Salihi. At the beginning of the interview, when
Dr. Salihi was asked to provide his office address and phone number, Dr. Salihi asked his office
manager, who was also present in the room, for the information. Dr. Salihi was then told that the

office manager was not supposed to be present in the room and she was asked to leave. During

'! The ALJ proposed decision has been redacted to remove confidential information from public view.

2
ORDER

On an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel B, it is hereby

ORDERED that the license of Akram Salihi, M.D. to practice medicine in Maryland,
license number D17536, is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that the July 15, 2020, order imposing a summary suspension upon Dr.
Salihi’s medical license is terminated as moot; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Salihi regains competence, Dr. Salihi may apply for reinstatement
of his license to practice medicine after a minimum of one (1) year from the date of this Order;

and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and
Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File
Ju ne ! 202)
2S Se =< =
Date Christine A. Farrelly/E ecutive\ Director
Maryland State Board of ate jans
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Salihi has the right to seek judicial
review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within thirty
(30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter accompanying
this Final Decision and Order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial

review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State

Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

11
If Dr. Salihi files a Petition for Judicial Review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any Petition for Judicial Review should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the
following address:
Stacey M. Darin, Assistant Attorney General
Office of the Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

12
EXHIBIT 1
  

OFT OF ATT
r an

DEC 17 2020
MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF * BEFORE MICHELLE W., COLE,
. re eee

PHYSICIANS * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE | ore
v. * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE

AKRAM A. SALIHI, M.D., * OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
RESPONDENT _ * OAH No.: MDH-MBP1-71-20-17463

MDH-MBP1-72-20-16563
LICENSE No.: D17536 *

* * * * * * * * * * , * * *
PROPOSED DECISION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
DISCUSSION
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
On July 15, 2020, the Maryland Board of Physicians (MBP or Board) issued an Order for -

Summary Suspension against Akram A. Salihi, M.D. (Respondent). On August 20, 2020, the
Board filed disciplinary charges alleging violations of the State law governing the practice of
medicine. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 through 14-508, and 14-601 through 14-607
(2014 & Supp. 2020). Specifically, the Respondent is charged with violating section 14-404(a)
of the Act based on mental incompetence to practice medicine. Jd. § 14-404(a)(4); Code of
Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.02,03E(3)(d). ‘The disciplinary panel to which the

complaint was assigned forwarded the charges to the Office of the Attorney General for

prosecution, and another disciplinary panel delegated the matter to the Office of Administrative

 
Hearings (OAH) for jssuance of proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law, and a
proposed disposition. COMAR 10.32.02.03E(5); COMAR 10.32.02.04B(1).

Theld a hearing on September 11, 2020, at the OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland. Health
Occ. § 14-405(a) (Supp. 2020); COMAR 10.32.02.04. Donald Feige, Esquire, represented the
Respondent, who was present. Debra A. Smith, Assistant Attomey General and Administrative
Prosecutor, represented the Board. '

Procedure in this case is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings Before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the Office of Administrative Hearings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-201
through 10-226 (2014 & Supp. 2020); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.

ISSUES

1, Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(4) of the Medical Practice Act by
conduct showing the Respondent to be professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent?

2. If the Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act, what sanction is appropriate?

3. ac summary suspension of the Respondent's license necessary because public ,
health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action?

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
Exhibits

Unless otherwise noted, I admitted the following exhibits into evidence on behalf of the
Board:

MBP Ex.1 Notice-of Charges, August 17, 2020

MBP Ex.2 Letter from MBP to Respondent, July 30, 2020

‘ The summary suspension and disciplinary cases were consolidated for hearing.
MBP Ex.3 Letter from Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program to MBP, June 24,
2020; Mental Status Exam, June 19, 2020

MBP Ex.4 MBP Investigative Report, July 2, 2020

MBP Ex.5 Fax Transmittal, January 17, 2019; Intake Unit Complaint Form, January 17,
2019

MBP Ex.6 MBP Physician Profile, July 1, 2020

MBP Ex.7 Not Admitted

MBP Ex. 8 _ Transcript, May 7, 2020

MBP Ex.9 Letter from G, Westphal, MBP, to Respondent, June 10, 2020

MBP Ex. 10 Letter from C. Farrelly, MBP, to Respondent, July 15, 2020; Order for Summary
Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, July 15, 2020

MBP Ex. 11 Eo a Ph.D., Curriculum Vitae
MBP Ex. 12 a. Curriculum Vitae

MBP Ex. 13 Not Admitted
MBP Ex. 14 Letter from ee vith summary of assessment results, undated
L admitted the following exhibits into evidence on behalf of the Respondent:
Resp. Ex.1 Report of Evaluation, July 3, 2020
Resp. Ex.2 Letter from [a M.D.. to “To Whom it May Concern,” July 9, 2020
Resp. ExX.3 Medical Notes, July 23, 2020
Testimony
The following witnesses testified on behalf of the Board: aamumamammmmmgy, M.D.,

whom I accepted as-an expert in neurology; aman Ph.D., whom IJ accepted as an

expert in neuropsychology; and Gretchen Westphal, MBP Compliance Analyst.
The Respondent testified on his own behalf, and presented the following witnesses: Ea
Ea Ph.'D., whom I accepted as an expert in general psychology; and a
nn &N.

PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

Having considered all of the evidence presented, I find the following facts by a
preponderance of the evidence:

1, The Respondent is seventy-seven years old, born in December, 1942,

2. The Respondent was born in Iraq, where he remained until 1970, His native
language is Turkman, which was spoken in his childhood home. The Respondent was tutored in
English, beginning when he was four years old. In 1971, the Respondent moved to the United
States, where he completed his residency training in pediatrics, The Respondent is married and
speaks only English in his family home as neither the Respondent’s wife nor his children speak
Turkman.

3. At all times relevant to this proceeding, the Respondent was.a licensed physician -
in the State of Maryland. He has held a Maryland license since December 19, 1974. This
license will expire on September 30, 2021.

4,  . The Respondent’s practice primarily focused on pediatric patients.

5. . In 2008, the Respondent announced his retirement and sold his practice at a

LS

6. In 2011 or 2012; the Respondent returned to practice at a new location, iim

ae :
7. In January 2019, the Board received a complaint from po

alleging inappropriate conduct by the Respondent in the practice of medicine, based on an
anonymous tip of fraud received by Eg. After conducting its own investigation, Mg closed
its case, noting: “no findings/corroborating evidence.” (MBP Ex. 4). The Board initiated its
own investigation regarding the alleged conduct.

8. On May 7, 2020, Gretchen Westphal and Molly Dicken, compliance analysts with
the MBP; interviewed the Respondent by telephone, The Respondent’s attorney was present
with the Respondent during the entire interview.

9. At the beginning of the interview, when the Respondent was asked to provide his
address and telephone number, he asked his office manager, who was also present in the room,
for the requested information. When Ms. Westphal indicated that the office manager was not
supposed to be present for the interview,” the office manager left the room,

10. During the interview, the Respondent had difficulty recalling the names of former
staff members at his practice, including ne "4 Gace. with whom he worked
for almost ten years. When asked specifically if he remembered the two individuals, the
Respondent replied: “1 really don’t recall them, [ don’t. I should, but I don’t. I’m telling you the
fact — the truth. I don’t recall.” (MBP Ex. 8 at 19).

11. The MBP referred the Respondent’s case to the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (MPRP) to perform an evaluation.

12, On June 19, 2020, ARMM M.D., at MPRP, conducted an evaluation,

Clinical staff met with the Respondent and administered a Short Test of Mental Status. The

Respondent’s score on the Short Test of Mental Status

 

2 Prior to the interview, the Respondent requested that his office manager be permitted to accompany him at the
interview. This request was denied.

3 The Respondent later recalled IMM as an employee who had a drug problem. He reported that she had a
different last name. . :
” indicating cognitive impairment. EE
SS
1 3, The MPRP recommended that the Respondent sign a practice cessation —
agreement, which he declined to do. The MPRP referred the Respondent for additional testing to
determine cognitive impairment. An examination was scheduled for June 30, 2020.
14. Prior to the examination date, the Respondent repeatedly requested that the
examination be rescheduled so that he may continue to treat patients. These requests were denied.
15. On June 30, 2020, the Respondent failed to appear for the neuropsychological .
evaluation. The MPRP scheduled another neuropsychological examination.
16. | The Respondent announced the effective date of his retirement from his practice
as June 30, 2020. -

17. On July 3, 2020, Dr iponducted an evaluation of the Respondent. He

administered the following assessments:

 
 

18. OnJuly 9, 2020 M.D., the Respondent’s treating physician,

completed the Respondent’s annual exam, during which she administered the Modified Mini

Mental Status Exam to him, Dr. il wrote a letter on the Respondent’s behalf as follows:
“(The Respondent] is in Excellent Health and had Ene in the Modified Mini Mental
Status Exam and J am Writing this Letter Per Dr Salihi’s request to Certify that he is fit

Physically and Mentally.” (Resp. Ex. 2).
the interview, Dr. Salihi was asked for the names of former staff members who were employed at
his former practice and he could not remember their names. As a result, Panel A sent Dr. Salihi
for an independent evaluation, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402(a), to assess Dr. Salihi’s
competence to practice medicine. The evaluator opined that Dr. Salihi was not competent to safely
practice medicine due to a progressive medical condition.
EXCEPTIONS

Dr. Salihi takes exception to one of the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact and the conclusion
of law that he was mentally incompetent to practice medicine. He argues that the ALJ
misunderstood and misstated a crucial fact regarding a statement made by Dr. Salihi during his
interview with Board staff. Dr. Salihi also argues that the report and the opinions of the
independent evaluator hired by the Board should be rejected because the doctor did not personally
administer the tests on which his opinion was based. Finally, he argues that the ALJ erred by
failing to give sufficient weight to the testimony of his expert and fact witnesses. Each of Dr.
Salihi’s exceptions will be addressed, in turn. .
I. Findings of Fact

Dr. Salihi takes exception to the ALJ’s proposed finding of fact in paragraph 10 on page 5
of the proposed decision. The specific finding of fact is as follows:

During the interview, [Dr Salihi] had difficulty remembering the names of former

staff members at his practice... with whom he worked for almost ten years. When

asked specifically if he remembered the two individuals [Dr.: Salihi] replied: “I

really don’t recall them, | don’t. I should, but I don’t. I’m telling you the fact — the

truth. I don’t recall.”
Ina footnote, the ALJ clarified that Dr. Salihi later remembered one of the two employees he was

asked about and explained that she had a different last name. Dr. Salihi argues that the ALJ

misunderstood his statement, and he claims that he did not work with these individuals for ten
19. On July 14, 2020, the Respondent attended a neuropsychological evaluation at

Johns Hopkins Hospital where he underwent a battery of 32 assessments, focused on cognitive

ability, including the following:

 

a a
21. The Respondent has difficulty performing tasks which require the ability to code,
store, and recall information.
22. On July 15, 2020, the Board informed the Respondent that it was summarily

suspending his license to practice medicine.

9
23. On July 23, 2020, at the Respondent’s request, !! ee M.D.,

performed a neurologic examination of the Respondent.

   

PE Resp mm »

DISCUSSION

The grounds for reprimand or probation of a licensee, or suspension or revocation

of a license under the Act include the following:
(a) in general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the

disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetentt.]
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ, § 14-404(a)(4) (Supp. 2020). The Board may summarily suspend a
professional’s license “if the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency
action.” Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2).

The Board contends that the Respondent is mentally incompetent to perform his duties as
a pédiatrician and that summary suspension is appropriate based on the risks the Respondent
presents to his patients. The Respondent refutes this contention and maintains that he is mentally

competent to perform his duties as a pediatrician.

"Tt appears that Dr. [EEggmreferred the Respondent for evaluation, as the medical notés ate in the fornr of a letter
from Dre Dr. EEA (Resp. Ex. 3).

10
When not otherwise provided by statute or regulation, the standard of proof in a contested
case hearing before the OAH is a preponderance of the eviderice, and the burden of proof rests
on the party making an assertion or a claim. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-217 (2014);
COMAR 28.02.01.21K. To prove an assertion or a claim by a preponderance of the evidence
means to show that it is “‘more likely so than not so” when all the evidence is considered.
Coleman v. Anne Arundel Cty. Police Dep’t, 369 Md. 108, 125 n.16 (2002), In this case, the
Board bears the burden to show that the Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act and that
summary suspension of the Respondent’s professional license is appropriate. Based on the
evidence, J conclude that the Board has met its burden in this case.

Witness Testimony

Dr. Ea medical director of the MPRP, whom I accepted as an expert in
neurology, testified regarding the history of the Respondent’s case. He was present via
videoconference for the Respondent’s interview and Short Test of Mental Status on June 19,
2020, He reported that the Respondents ET

[ee cause for further testing of
the Respondent’s cognitive ability. He stated that mental competence is hard to measure.
However, based on his review of the Respondent’s information, he believed that the Respondent
was not able to safely practice medicine based on his cognitive impairment, as reflected in his
interview ia.

Dr. Ea whom I accepted as an expert in neuropsychology, opined that the
Respondent was not competent to safely practice medicine at this time. He interviewed the
Respondent and reviewed records, including the Respondent's July 14, 2020 neuropsychological

examination and assessments. pizza described in detail the various tests administered to
the Respondent, specifically noting which tests provided information on the Respondent’s

cognitive function. He concluded that the Respondent’s performance:showed cognitive

ipsioent rs mp os,
ey Dr. Ea er orted some difficulty understanding the

Respondent because of the Respondent’s accent. He indicated that he considered the fact that

English was not'the Respondent’s first language, but did not believe that a language issue

affected the assessments or his conclusions,-reporting the Respondent’s scores to be abnormal

even for an individual with English as a second language. Po

 
 

Dr. stated that he considered the Respondent’s evidence, including Dr.

Ba sssessments and opinions. He reported that this information did not affect his

 

conclusions because the assessments failed to “fully” test memory and cognition. Ee

 

 

Dr concluded that the Respondent was severely impaired. He opined that, at this time,

the Respondent is not competent to safely practice medicine.
Gretchen Westphal, compliance analyst, MBP, testified regarding her interview with the

Respondent. She stated that she had concems regarding the Respondent’s memory based on his

13
conduct and lack of recall during the interview. Specifically, she noted that the Respondent
could not quickly reeal! names of former co-workers or the address of his practice. Ms.
Westphal explained that the Respondent brought his office manager to participate in the
interview even though the MBP denied his request to allow her participation, As the interview
was conducted telephonically, Ms. Westphal did not learn of the office manager’s presence until
the Respondent asked the office manager for assistance with answering a question during the
interview. At that time, Ms. Westphal reminded the Respondent and his attorney that the office

manager was not permitted to participate in the interview.

Eo whom I accepted as an-expert in general psychology, testified on the

 

Respondent’s behalf. He conducted an evaluation and administered assessments to the

 

14
The Respondent testified on his own behalf. He reviewed his personal information and
provided clear responses to the same questions that were posed to him during the interview,
including identifying the names of former staff members and the addresses for his practice. He
explained why he did not immediately recall EE because her last name was changed at
some point. He described the rapport that he had with his patients and their families, and stated
that he misses medicine. He also described some of the treatments that he routinely employed
with patients for ear infections, strep, and bronchitis.

Peace | a nurse practitioner employed by the Respondent's practice,
testified on the Respondent’s behalf. She reported working with the Respondent for three years.
During that time, after an initial training period where she shadowed the Respondent, she saw the
Respondent’s patients independent of him. She stated that he knew the patients so well and
“always had the answer” if she had a question. She explained that everyone seemed to love the
Respondent.

Analysis

The Board summarily suspended the Respondent’s license and proposes to revoke his
license based on its determination that the Respondent is mentally incompetent to practice
medicine. The Respondent denies having any cognitive impairment and maintains that he is
capable of returning to his practice and continuing to serve his patients, In making my decision,
Ihave relied largely on expert testimony regarding the interpretation of psychological and
cognitive tests which were administered to the Respondent.

In this-area, I found Dr. aa: testimony to be credible and persuasive. He is a
clinical neuropsychologist with more than thirty years of experience in diagnosing and treating

dementia patients. He demonstrated a vast knowledge of the measures that are regularly utilized

45
in evaluating cognitive function. In this respect, I gave more weight to Dr. ae testimony
than to Dr. as. Dr. aa: a licensed psychologist whose practice involves largely the

. assessment of children. He testified that he has evaluated only one other physician, and does not
do evaluations for [mms [He stated that if he suspected such a diagnosis, which he
did not in the Respondent's case, he would refer the patient to a neurologist. Further, oii
reported that he was unfamiliar with many of the cognitive measures administered to the
Respondent in this case, as he does not use any of those tests. I am not persuaded by Dr.
| that the limited assessments administered by him are sufficient to make a
determination regarding the Respondent’s cognitive ability. Rather, I agree with |
that the more focused testing is significant in making an accurate determination regarding the
Respondent’s current functional ability. As such, I have placed great weight on Dr. Bad
testimony regarding the Respondent’s performance on cognitive measures,

Dr. Ee explanation of the various cognitive tests was thorough and clear. He
described the Respondent’s weaknesses and explained the significance of the Respondent’s
abnormal results, performing below 99 percent of individuals in his age group. He noted that the
Respondent was not.a native English speaker, and explained why he believed that language
problems did not affect the results in this case, noting comparable performance on non-linguistic
measures. He identified his concerns regarding the pattern of weaknesses, suggesting that this

was indicative of an EE ‘ieenosis, and recommended specific tests to confirm a

a proper diagnostic test, but suggested that the Ee should also have

been administered to provide a full and accurate picture of the Respondent’s cognitive ability.

 

He further recommended imaging studies to supplement the cognitive assessments. Dr.
Pd plained why the assessments conducted by Dr. az, which largely were focused
=. were insufficient to make or rule out al diagnosis. As such, he
suggested that the battery of tests administered by Dr. Bere not helpful to a determination
in this case, and that these results muddied the waters for making a proper diagnosis.

The sum of evidence supports a conclusion that the Respondent has cognitive
impairment. These deficits were apparent during the Respondent’s May 7, 2020 interview and in
the June 19, 2020 Short Test of Mental Status. The fact that the Respondent appeared to show
improved cognitive function on later mini mental exams does not affect my decision. I was not
provided any information on the measures included in the mini mental status exams administered
by the Respondent’s doctors. However, this is irrelevant to my decision because I agree with Dr.
aa the short test of mental status is a preliminary diagnostic tool, which served as the
basis in this case for referral for additional testing more focused on cognitive function. The fact
that the Respondent had inconsistent results on these preliminary tests is persuasive evidence that
additional, more focused testing was required.

The Respondent’s performance on various cognitive assessments support the Board’s

contention that the Respondent has cognitive deficits, particularly in the areas of learning new

 

 
years, but that they were short term employees that he had worked with ten years ago, which
explains why he did not remember their names. Dr. Salihi argues that this misunderstanding of
the correct facts formed part of the basis for the ALJ’s finding that Dr. Salihi was not competent
to practice medicine.

The full context of Dr. Salihi’s interview with Board staff reveals that he was employed at
his former office location for approximately eight to ten years before he sold the practice in 2008.
He explained that he was the owner of the practice and employed two staff, one at the front desk
and one that worked in the back. Dr. Salihi was then asked to name the employees who worked
for him and he was unable to remember their names. The Board investigator mentioned two
specific names of individuals and he still did not recognize the names or remember the individuals.
The investigator then stated: “I mean, Dr. Salihi, with all due respect, you worked with them for
almost 10 years. So you’re telling me you don’t recall [] or []?” Dr. Salihi responded: “I really
don’t recall them, I don’t. I should, but I don’t. I’m telling you the fact — the truth.” Dr. Salihi
was then asked if he had a lot of staff turnover and he responded: “Yeah, I think I did.” As the
ALJ noted, Dr. Salihi later remembered one of the employees and explained that he did not
recognize the name because the employee had a different last name when she worked for him. For
the first time, at the OAH hearing, Dr. Salihi testified that he hired one of the former employees
he was asked about three months before he sold the practice, about ten years ago. Dr. Salihi also
claimed that the individuals were short time employees. Panel B accepts Dr. Salihi’s statement
and position that these individuals were short time employees that Dr. Salihi had worked with ten
years prior to the interview. As such, the Panel will remove the clause, “with whom he worked

for almost ten years” from finding of fact paragraph 10. The remainder of the paragraph is

? The names of the employees have been redacted for purposes of confidentiality.

4
 

I conclude that the Respondent’s cognitive impairment affects his ability to competently

practice medicine. In Blaker v. State Board of Chiropractic Examiners, 123 Md. App. 243, 258
(1998), the Court of Special Appeals recognized that “[i]n common parlance, ‘incompetence’
means a lack of the learning or skill necessary to perform, day in and day out, the characteristic

tasks of a given calling in at least a reasonably effective way.” i the medical

DE SL
wv

director of the MPRP, whom I accepted as an expert in neurology, reported that summary
suspension was appropriate in this case based on concerns that the Respondent was unable to
safely practice medicine based on his cognitive impairment. He stated that, with the level of
impairment indicated by the Respondent’s performance, it is logical to assume that a certain
amount of his function would be affected. Likewise, Dr inca that the Respondent
was not competent to safely practice medicine. He believes that the pattern of results is
indicative of a diagnosis of Ee ee)

. The Respondent has failed to dispute the Board’s evidence or to demonstrate that he is
competent to practice medicine at this time, The Respondent presented a letter from pia
and medical notes from ie cesses | Dr. gil eported that the Respondent “had

bod the Modified Mini Mental Status Exam and I am Writing this Letter Per Dr
Salihi’s request to Certify that he is fit Physically and Mentally.” (Resp. Ex. 2). Dr. cia
not testify at the hearing, and did not provide any information regarding the basis for the
statement. I did not find Dr. BR sateen to constitute persuasive evidence of the
Respondent’s competence to practice medicine. Likewise, Dr. ae « did not affect my
3

decision. pr. performed an evaluation and administered a mini mental status exam.!

Regarding the neurologic examination, Dr. Hd vtec:

 

3 The record is not clear whether the mini mental status exam upon which Dr Biictics is the same exam
administered by Dr. [EERE In any event, whether it is the’same exam or two does not affect my decision.

19
(Resp. Ex. 3). Dr RE forthe concluded:

 

(Ud.). As previously stated, I agree with Dr. i= the neurological tests which are
focused on cognitive ability bear more relevance to my determination than repeat mini mental
exams. I also consider that Dr as not testify at the hearing to explain the basis for the
conclusions reached and the reasons why further testing was not recommended, and did not
express an opinion of the Respondent’s competence to practice medicine,

: Dr sia provide an opinion on the Respondent’s competence to practice medicine.
He administered tests for the purpose of rendering an opinion in this case and opined that the
Respondent was “cognitively” competent to practice medicine. As already stated, on the issue of
cognitive testing, I have assigned more weight to Dr. S| testimony than to Dr. za
‘testimony. I do not believe that the limited tests upon which Dr. ics in rendering his
opinion are sufficient to make a proper determination. I also do not find these results to support

a conclusion that the Respondent is competent to practice medicine. Accordingly, I do not credit

Dr. Be orision on this issue.

20
aaa that the Respondent was able to answer her questions

regarding their shared patients. However, she was seeing patients independent of the
Respondent and did not have the opportunity to evaluate the Respondent as he performed his
duties as a pediatrician. Moreover, she did not offer any opinion on the Respondent’s
competence to practice medicine at this time. While there have been no credible complaints
raised by colleagues or patients regarding deficient patient care to this date, the Board is not
required to wait until an actual injury occurs. I do not doubt Nurse fia cstimony
regarding the love and admiration that the Respondent’s patients have for him. I believe that the
Respondent is a caring individual who has dedicated his entire career to the service of his
patients. However, | must determine whether the Respondent currently places his patients and
the general public at risk based on his mental incompetence. In this regard, as set forth above, I
believe that the evidence is clear that the Respondent’s cognitive impairment affects his ability to
safely practice medicine and emergency action is required to address this imminent threat, As
such, I find that the Board’s decision to summarily suspend the Respondent’s license is correct. 1
also find that the Board has proven that the Respondent violated section 14-404(a) of the
Medical Practice Act based on mental incompetence to practice medicine.
Sanctions

In this case, the Board seeks revocation of the Respondent’s license to practice medicine.
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (Supp. 2020); COMAR 10.32.02.09A, B; COMAR
10.32.02.10.. Based on the evidence, particularly the expert testimony of > ia 1 do not
agree with the Board’s proposed sanction at this time. Dr RH cported that a diagnosis of

a be confirmed through additional testing, including imaging studies. While he

21
suspected a diagnosis of a this case, he did not confirm such a diagnosis.

As such, it is unclear whether the Respondent may regain competence to practice medicine.
COMAR 10.32.02.09, Sanctioning and Imposition of Fines, provides a framework for .

consideration of various sanctions available to the Board. In relevant part it provides: |

A. General Application of Sanctioning Guidelines. :

(2) Sections A and B of this regulation and Regulation .10 of this chapter
do not apply to offenses for which a mandatory sanction is set by statute or
regulation.

(2) Except as provided in §B of this regulation, for violations of Health
Occupations Article, §§14-404(a), ... the disciplinary panel shall impose a
sanction not less severe than the minimum listed in the sanctioning guidelines nor
more severe than the maximum listed in the sanctioning guidelines for each
offense.

3) Ranking of Sanctions.

a) For the purposes of this regulation, the severity of sanctions is ranked
as follows, from the least severe to the most severe:

i) Reprimand;

ii) Probation;

(iii) Suspension; and

iv) Revocation. ,

5) Any sanction may be accompanied by conditions reasonably related to
the offense or to the rehabilitation of the offender. The inclusion of conditions
does not change the ranking of the sanction.
6) If a licensee has violated more than one.ground for discipline as set out
in the sanctioning guidelines:
a) The sanction with the highest severity ranking should be used to
determine which ground will be used in developing a sanction; and

(b) The disciplinary panel may impose concurrent sanctions based on
other grounds violated.

 

(8) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each case, and to the
extent that the facts and circumstances apply, the disciplinary panel may consider
the aggravating and mitigating factors set out in § B(5) and (6) of this regulation
and may in its discretion determine, based on those-factors, that an exception
should be made and that the sanction in a particular case should fall outside the
range of sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

22
(9) If the disciplinary panel imposes a sanction that departs from the
sanctioning guidelines set forth in Regulation .10 of this chapter, the disciplinary
panel shall state its reasons for doing so in its final decision and order.

B. Aggravating and Mitigating Factors.

(1) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each case, and to the
extent that the facts and circumstances apply, the disciplinary pane! may consider
the aggravating and mitigating factors set out in § B(5) and (6) of this regulation
and may in its discretion determine, baséd on those factors, that an exception
should be made and that the sanction in a particular case should fall outside the
range of sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

(2) Nothing in this regulation requires the disciplinary panel oran
administrative law judge to make findings of fact with respect to any of these
factors.

(3) A departure from the sanctioning guidelines set forth in Regulation .10
of this chapter is not a ground for any hearing or appeal of a disciplinary panel
action. .

(4) The existence of one or more of these factors does not impose on the
disciplinary panel or an administrative law judge any requirement to articulate its
reasoning for not exercising its discretion to impose a sanction outside of the
range of sanctions set out in the sanctioning guidelines.

(5) Mitigating factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) The absence of a prior disciplinary record;

(b) The offender self-reported the incident;

(c) The offender voluntarily admitted the misconduct, made full disclosure
to the disciplinary panel and was cooperative during the disciplinary panel
proceedings;

(d) The offender implemented remedial measures to correct or mitigate the
harm arising from the misconduct;

(e) The offender made good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify
the consequences of the misconduct;

(f} The offender has been rehabilitated or exhibits rehabilitative potential;

(g) The misconduct was not premeditated;

(h) There was no potential harm to patients or the public or other adverse
impact; or ,

(i) The incident was isolated and is not likely to recur.

(6) Aggravating factors may include, but.are not limited to, the following:

(a) The offender has a previous criminal or administrative disciplinary
history; /

(b) The offense was committed deliberately or with gross negligence or
recklessness;

(c) The offense had the potential for or actually did cause patient harm;

(d) The offense was part of a pattern of detrimental conduct;

(e) The offender committed a combination of factually discrete offenses
adjudicated in a single action;

(f} The offender pursued his or her financial gain over the patient's
welfare;

23
(g) The patient.was especially vulnerable;
(h) The offender attempted to hide the error or misconduct from patients
or others; : :

(i) The offender concealed, falsified or destroyed evidence, or presented
false testimony or evidence;

Gj) The offender did not cooperate with the investigation; or

(k) Previous attempts to rehabilitate the offender were unsuccessful.

Under COMAR 10.32.02.10B(4)(b) the maximum sanction that may be imposed for
violating section 14-404(a)(4) is revocation and the minimum sanction is suspension until the .
physician’s physical or mental incompetence is addressed to the Board’s satisfaction. Ahsent
firm confirmation of the permanence of the Respondent’s mental incompetence, I believe that the
appropriate sanction is to keep the Respondent’s license on suspended status until the

Respondent provides information to the Board to establish that he is mentally competent to

resume the practice of medicine.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of law
that the summary suspension of the Respondent’s license to practice medicine was proper
because the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively required emergency action. Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014).

I further conclude as a matter of law that the Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(4) by
being mentally incompetent to practice medicine. Md. Code Ann, Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(4)
(Supp. 2020).

I further conclude that the Respondent is subject to the suspension of his license until the
Respondent provides information to the Board to establish that he is mentally competent to

" tesume the practiee of medicine. Jd; COMAR 10.32.02.09A, B; COMAR 10.32.02.10B(4)(b).

24
PROPOSED DISPOSITION
I PROPOSE that the summary suspension issued by the Board on July 15, 2020 be
UPHELD; . .
I PROPOSE that the charges filed by the Board against the Respondent on August 20,
2020 be UPHELD; and
I PROPOSE that the Respondent be sanctioned by suspension of his license to practice
medicine until the Respondent provides information to the Board to establish that he is mentally

competent to resume the practice of medicine.

Whentiells. tt) Coble

December 9, 2020
Date Decision Issued Michelle W. Cole
Administrative Law Judge

MWC/kdp
#189318

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may file written exceptions with
the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the captioned
case to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), and request a hearing on the exceptions.
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-216(a) (2014); COMAR 10.32.02.05, Exceptions must be
filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order. COMAR
10.32.02,05B(1). The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary
Panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Attn:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director.

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attorney, and the other party
will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response addressed as
above, id. The disciplinary panel will issue a final order following the exceptions hearing or
other formal panel proceedings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-216, 10-221 (2014);
COMAR 10.32.02.05C. The OAH is not a party to any review process,

25.
Copies mailed to:

Akram A. Salihi, MD

Donald A. Feige, Esquire
Law Office

111 East Schuyler Road
Silver Spring, MD 20901

Debra Smith

Maryland Department of Health
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 207
Baltimore, MD 21201

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Compliance Administration

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, MD 21215

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

_ Wicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel
Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

"300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201”

26 .
uncontested and Dr. Salihi admitted that he should have remembered the names. The details of
Dr. Salihi’s Board interview are relevant for explaining the reasons why Dr. Salihi was sent for a
Health Occ. § 14-402 evaluation but are of little consequence when compared to the results of the
evaluation itself.

Panel B has carefully reviewed the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact and finds that each of
the proposed findings of fact, with the small modification discussed above, was established in the
record, and supported by a preponderance of the evidence.

IL Mental Incompetence

As a result of concerns regarding Dr. Salihi’s memory and ability to answer questions
during his interview with Board staff, the Board referred Dr. Salihi to the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) for an independent evaluation to assess whether he was
competent to practice medicine. The clinicians at MPRP performed an intake evaluation and
expressed significant concerns regarding Dr. Salihi’s cognitive functioning. The Medical Director
of MPRP opined that Dr. Salihi was unsafe to practice medicine pending the results of a
neurocognitive evaluation and referred Dr. Salihi to a neuropsychologist for purposes of
conducting an independent neurocognitive evaluation to determine whether Dr. Salihi was
competent to practice medicine. On July 14, 2020, Dr. Salihi underwent.an independent evaluation
by a neuropsychologist who conducted an in-person neuropsychological examination of Dr. Salihi
with the assistance of a credentialed psychology associate.? The neuropsychologist concluded,
after reviewing the results of the tests conducted by the psychology associate, that Dr. Salihi was

not competent to practice medicine safely.

3 The results of the tests performed as part of the evaluation are not disclosed in this document to protect Dr. Salihi’s
private health information.
Dr. Salihi obtained evaluations from a psychologist and a neurologist, in addition to his
primary care physician, who all opined that Dr. Salihi was competent to practice medicine. At the
OAH hearing, Dr. Salihi testified on his own behalf and presented testimony from the psychologist,
who was accepted as an expert in general psychology, and a registered nurse who worked in Dr.
Salihi’s office, who testified as a fact witness. Dr. Salihi did not present testimony from his
primary care physician or the neurologist who evaluated him. The State presented testimony from
the Medical Director of MPRP, who was accepted as an expert in neurology, the independent
evaluator, who was accepted as an expert in neuropsychology, and the Board compliance analyst,
who was assigned to investigate the case.

Dr. Salihi takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that he was mentally incompetent to practice
medicine. He argues that the evaluations conducted by his experts and the opinion of his treating
physician should be given more weight than the evaluation conducted by the State’s expert. Dr.
Salihi also argues that the ALJ erred by permitting the State’s expert to testify and render an
opinion on Dr. Salihi’s competence when he did not personally conduct the testing on which his
opinion was based. Finally, Dr. Salihi argues that the ALJ should have given more weight to his
testimony and the testimony of the nurse practitioner who worked in his office.

A. Expert Testimony

The ALJ considered the testimony of the experts who testified at the OAH hearing, as well
as the letter from Dr. Salihi’s primary care physician and the report from the neurologist that Dr.
Salihi hired to conduct an evaluation, which were admitted as exhibits. The ALJ explained that
she did not find the letter written by Dr. Salihi’s primary care physician or the report submitted by
the neurologist to be persuasive regarding Dr. Salihi’s competence to practice medicine because

they did not testify at the OAH hearing and did not provide any basis for their conclusions in the
written submissions. In reaching her decision, the ALJ relied largely on the expert testimony from
the State’s experts and the psychologist, who testified on behalf of Dr. Salihi, and explained that
she found the testimony of the State’s expert to be more credible and persuasive.

The ALJ explained that Dr. Salihi’s expert is a licensed psychologist whose practice largely
involves the assessment of children and noted that he had evaluated only one other physician. Dr. .
Salihi’s expert was also unfamiliar with many of the tests that the State’s expert conducted and the
ALJ was unconvinced that the limited tests that Dr. Salihi’s expert performed were sufficient to
make an accurate determination about Dr. Salihi’s fitness to practice medicine, The Panel agrees
with the ALJ’s assessment of the expert testimony and, like the ALJ, gives greater weight to the
testimony of the independent evaluator who testified on behalf of the State. See Blaker v. State
Board of Chiropractic Examiners, 123 Md. App. 243, 259 (1998) (“When two experts offer
conflicting opinions, the trier of fact must evaluate the testimony of both experts and decide which
opinion, if either, to accept.”). Thus, Panel B concurs with the ALJ and the State’s experts that
Dr. Salihi is mentally incompetent to practice medicine. Dr. Salihi’s exception is denied.

B. Admission of Expert Report and Testimony

Dr. Salihi argues that the independent evaluator should not have been permitted to testify
and render an opinion based on the tests that were administered by the credentialed psychology
associate. The independent evaluator testified that he is a board-certified clinical
neuropsychologist with over thirty years of experience in diagnosing, research, and treatment of
neurological disorders. The ALJ admitted the independent evaluator as an expert in
neuropsychology without objection. As to the evaluation process and the preparation of the report
summarizing his findings regarding Dr. Salihi, the independent evaluator explained that he

followed a standard process where the psychology associate administered the tests that he selected,
and he interpreted the findings to reach a conclusion. He explained the purpose of each test,
methodology of each test, and Dr. Salihi’s performance on each test.. He also testified that he
conducted a thorough interview of Dr. Salihi before the assistant administered the tests and that he
spent approximately an hour to an hour and a half with Dr. Salihi. The independent evaluator
explained that the test results were adjusted for Dr. Salihi’s age, sex, educational background, and
estimated premorbid ability. The evaluation also took into consideration that English was not Dr,
Salihi’s native language. The independent evaluator disagreed with the conclusions of Dr. Salihi’s
expert and explained that Dr. Salihi’s expert used a different set of tests, which were not designed
to show the presence of and could have obscured the presence of the suspected condition at issue.

The ALJ permitted the testimony and report of the independent evaluator, over Dr. Salihi’s
objection, explaining that hearsay is permitted in administrative hearings as long as it is found to
be reliable. The ALJ found that the hearsay was reliable, and that the independent evaluator was
personally involved in the analysis of the data and very familiar with the tests that were
administered and the testing results. The Panel agrees with the analysis of the ALJ and the decision
to admit the report and testimony of the independent evaluator. The record reflects that the
independent evaluator prepared the report and analyzed the data collected by the psychology
associate from the selection of tests that he ordered to be administered. He explained that it was
standard practice in the industry to have an associate administer the tests and that the associate
followed a standard protocol and was trained in the administration of the tests. Accordingly, Panel
B finds that the independent evaluator was competent to testify regarding the entirety of the report
and the testing results and that the ALJ properly allowed the testimony over Dr. Salihi’s objection.

Dr. Salihi’s exception is denied.
C. Fact Witness Testimony

Dr. Salihi testified on his own behalf and called a nurse practitioner who worked with him
in his office as a fact witness. The nurse practitioner testified that she worked with Dr. Salihi in
the same office for approximately three years prior to his retirement. Initially she shadowed Dr.
Salihi, and they saw patients together for the first few weeks and then, after that, she saw patients
independently. She testified that she was not aware of any complaints regarding Dr. Salihi’s care
or treatment of patients, that Dr. Salihi was always able to answer her questions regarding their
shared patients, and that she was confident in Dr. Salihi’s medical practice.

The nurse practitioner, however, was not offered as an expert witness qualified to opine
about Dr. Salihi’s competence to practice medicine and she testified that she did not have a degree
in psychology or neuropsychology. The Board did not investigate or charge Dr. Salihi with any
standard of care violations and Dr. Salihi’s care and treatment of patients was not at issue in this
case. As the ALJ correctly noted, the Board is not required to wait until an actual injury occurs,
and the nurse practitioner was not qualified to render an expert opinion regarding Dr. Salihi’s
mental competence. See Pickert v. Maryland Bd. of Physicians, 180 Md. App. 490, 505 (2008)
(“No proof of injury or harm is required to take disciplinary actions against a physician’s license.”).
The Board adopts the ALJ’s reasoning and discussion regarding the testimony of the nurse
practitioner.

Dr. Salihi testified on his own behalf. The ALJ accurately described Dr. Salihi’s testimony
and noted that he provided clear responses to the same questions that were posed during his Board
interview. Dr. Salihi described some of the treatments he routinely provided and conditions he
treated. As discussed above, Dr. Salihi’s care and treatment of patients was not investigated or at

issue in this case. The focus of the Board’s investigation and the charges in this case was on
whether Dr. Salihi was mentally competent to practice medicine. The Panel, like the ALJ, relies
mainly on the expert reports and opinions of the two doctors who testified at OAH and were
accepted as experts of the ALJ. The Panel gives little weight to the testimony of the fact witnesses
who testified on Dr. Salihi’s behalf.

Dr. Salihi’s exceptions are denied.
I. Summary Suspension

Dr. Salihi did not file exceptions to the ALJ’s conclusion that the summary suspension of
his license was proper because the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively required
emergency action. In any event, Panel B agrees with the ALJ’s conclusion that the summary
suspension was proper.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that Dr. Salihi is mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(4), and that the summary suspension was proper because the public health, safety, or
welfare imperatively required emergency action pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2).

SANCTION

The ALJ recommended that Dr. Salihi’s license be suspended until the time when he
provides information to the Board to establish that he is mentally competent to resume the practice
of medicine. The State took exception to the ALJ’s proposed sanction and argues that the Panel
should impose a revocation of Dr. Salihi’s license instead of a suspension due to the permanency
of Dr. Salihi’s condition and the unlikely possibility that Dr. Salihi will regain competence in the
future. The Panel agrees with the State that it is unlikely that Dr. Salihi’s condition will improve
and that he will regain competence, but if Dr. Salihi does regain competence, the Panel will

consider an application for reinstatement after a minimum of one year.

10
