Inder Singh, M.D.

a
March (2019

Arun Bhandari, Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Inder Singh, M.D. License Number: D18962
Case Number: 2217-0015

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), Ihave decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D18962, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date! of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
August 10, 2018, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a) (22) (fails to meet adequate standards for quality medical care) and (40) (fails to
keep adequate medical records). A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges and due to my
retirement.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to

submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I

' This Letter of Surrender will go into effect 90 days from the date of acceptance by the Executive Director
of the Board to provide time for Dr. Singh to transition his patients and wind down his practice.
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Inder Singh, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated
as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in
any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may
impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public
safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

Iacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both
the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I
understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

Inder Singh, M.D.
(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Patient Two

Some of the notes in the medical record were handwritten and not
legible and lacked detail;

The records did not contain adequate justification for filling or
refilling controlled substances;

The Respondent’s documentation is brief, and frequently does not
include detailed descriptions of the medical problems, summaries of
labs and imaging findings, referrals to specialists and consultation
findings; and

The Respondent’s records lack a reasonable assessment of medical

issues or a plan of care.

20. The Respondent provided care from 2005 through 2017, for a female

patient, hereinafter “Patient Two,” who was diagnosed with cervical spine disc disease.

Patient Two complained of pain in her feet as well as low back.

21. Diagnostic tests confirmed that Patient Two had cervical degenerative disc

disease (DDD)’, and a neck electromyogram" revealed a chronic R C5-C6

radiculopathy! and mild carpal tunnel syndrome.'? Patient Two was also treated for

anxiety and depression.

” Cervical degenerative disc disease is a cause of neck pain and radiating arm pain. It develops when one or more of
the cushioning discs in the cervical spine starts to breakdown due to wear and tear.

' Electromyogram (EMG) is a test used to measure the electrical activity of muscles. The test is used to detect
abnormalities that can be caused by certain diseases and medical conditions.

"' Radiculopathy is a compressed nerve in the spine that causes, pain, numbness, tingling, or weakness along the
nerve. This condition is most common in the lower back.

"? Carpal tunnel syndrome is a medical condition due to compression of the median nerve as it travels through the
wrist at the carpal tunnel. The main symptoms are pain and numbness and tingling in the fingers.
 

22. The Respondent saw Patient Two on November 30, 2005, for complaints of
neck pain radiating to the right arm. He prescribed Percocet 10/325 mg (three times per
day), and Patient Two was referred to a neurologist for an EMG.

23. Patient Two complained of low back pain and pain in her feet; the
Respondent prescribed Percocet 10/325 mg (3-4 times per day), and she was maintained
on this regimen for many months. The Respondent prescribed Valium as well.

24. Patient Two was referred to a pain management specialist in December
2006. Her medication was changed to oxycodone 15 mg and Xanax 1 mg (b.i.d.). The
Respondent was maintained on narcotic medication for over 11 years.

25. The Experts found that the Respondent did not meet the appropriate
standard of care for the delivery of quality medical care while treating Patient Two for a
number of reasons, included but not limited to the following:

(a) The Respondent maintained Patient Two on narcotics for many
years, and on a high dose of oxycodone (15 mg) with Xanax (2 mg)
for a prolonged period of time without appropriate monitoring or a
plan of care;

(b) Office notes did not contain enough information to explain why
controlled substances were being refilled;

(c) The medical record did not contain adequate informed consent for

narcotic medication;
(d)

 

The Respondent did not adequately monitor for abuse and/or
diversion of narcotics, with urine screening, blood toxicology tests,

pill counts, or pharmacy checks.

26. Both Experts opined that the Respondent did not maintain adequate

records for a number of reasons, included but not limited to the following:

(a)

)

(c)

(e)

Patient Three

The medical records lacked detailed descriptions of the patient’s
pain, such as location, radiation, severity, timing etc.;

Peer Reviewer B noted in his report, that the record contained
inadequate general statements about pain such as, “movements of
lumbar spine are painful and somewhat limited,” or “examination is
essentially unchanged;”

The medical record did not adequately document reasons for
changing medication, or dose amounts; and

The medical record did not document monitoring for abuse or
diversion of narcotics, such as urine drug screenings, blood

toxicology tests, pill counts, or pharmacy checks.

27. The Respondent provided care to a male patient, hereinafter Patient Three.

Patient Three had a history of obesity, chronic low back pain and gout. Patient Three was

taking Xanax for anxiety and admitted that he was illegally buying oxycodone off the

street.
 

28. On April 21, 2012, the Respondent prescribed Patient Three oxycodone 10
mg (two times per day) and Xanax 2mg (two times per day).

29. In August 2012, the oxycodone was increased to 10 mg, (three times a day),
and in February 2014, Patient Three’s dose was increased to oxycodone 10 mg, (four
times a day) and Xanax 2mg (three times a day). Eventually the Xanax was increased to 8
mg per day, and the patient was maintained on this regimen for many months.

30. The Experts found that the Respondent did not meet the appropriate
standard of care for providing quality medical care while treating Patient Three for a
number of reasons, included but not limited to the following:

(a) The Respondent maintained a morbidly obese patient on a high dose
of benzodiazepines with a high dose of oxycodone for a prolonged
period of time.

(b) The Patient had a history of purchasing narcotics illegally, but the
Respondent did not monitor for drug diversion, with urine drug
toxicology screening or blood tests. The Respondent did not require
Patient Three to sign a pain contract, and the Respondent did not
monitor the prescription drug database for diversion.

31. Both Experts opined that the Respondent did not maintain adequate records
for a number of reasons, included but not limited to the following:

(a) The medical records lacked detailed descriptions of the patient’s

pain, such as location, radiation, severity, timing etc.;

10
 

(b) Peer Reviewer B noted in his report, that the record contained
inadequate general statements about pain such as, “movements of
lumbar spine are painful and somewhat limited,” or “examination is
essentially unchanged;”

(c) The medical record did not adequately document reasons for
changing medication, or dose amounts; and

(d) The medical record did not document monitoring for abuse or
diversion of narcotics, such as urine drug screenings, blood.
toxicology tests, pill counts, or pharmacy checks.

Patient Four

 

32. Beginning in 1985 the Respondent provided care for a female patient,
hereinafter Patient Four. Patient Four had a history of morbid obesity and pain
complaints, including hip knee, back, and generalized osteoarthritis.

33. The Respondent began prescribing Percocet for Patient Four as early as
September 28, 2004, and she was continued on narcotic medication for almost 13 years.

34. On November 15, 2010, the Respondent prescribed Patient Four Percocet
3/325 mg (8 tablets per day), a total of 240 tablets per month.

35. In 2013 the Respondent was prescribing oxycodone 15 mg (2 tabs every 6

hours). Patient Four was also prescribed Klonopin! (1 mg b.i.d).

Klonopin is a benzodiazepine, a class of depressants that produce sedation, induce sleep, relieve anxiety and
muscle spasms, and prevent seizures.

11
 

36. On May 30, 2015, Patient Four was seen at a pain management clinic,

which made recommendations. By May 2015, Patient Four was taking 15 mg of

oxycodone four times a day; she was maintained on this dose for many months.

37. The Experts found that the Respondent did not meet the appropriate

standard of care for the delivery of quality medical care while treating Patient Four for a

number of reasons, included but not limited to the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

The Respondent inappropriately prescribed benzodiazepines and
oxycodone for a morbidly obese patient for many years, when that
combination can cause respiratory depression;

Respondent did not monitor for drug diversion, with urine drug
toxicology screening. The Respondent did not require Patient Four
to sign a pain contract, and the Respondent did not monitor the
prescription drug database for diversion; and

The medical record did not contain enough information to document

why controlled substances were being prescribed.

38. Both Experts opined that the Respondent did not keep adequate records for

Patient Four for a number of reasons, included but not limited to the following:

(a)

(b)

The medical records lacked detailed descriptions of the patient's
pain, such as location, radiation, severity, timing etc.;
Peer Reviewer B noted in his report, that the record contained

inadequate general statements about pain such as, “movements of

12
 

both knees are painful and somewhat limited,” or “movements of
lumbar spine are painful and somewhat limited; and
(c) The medical record did not adequately document reasons for
changing medication and/or dose amounts; and the medical record
did not document monitoring for abuse or diversion of narcotics,
such as urine drug screenings.
Patient Five

39. In 2009 the Respondent began providing care for a male patient,
hereinafter Patient Five. Patient Five had a history of chronic low back pain. On October
28, 2009, the Respondent prescribed Percocet 5/325. In July 2011 the Respondent
prescribed Percocet 7.5/325 (two times per day) By November 4, 2011, the Respondent
had increased the dosage to Percocet 7.5/325 mg (three times per day), a total of 90
tablets per month.

40. The Respondent later increased the Percocet to 10/325 mg. The Respondent
continued this regimen until October 24, 2016, when Percocet was changed to oxycodone
and this regimen was continued until March 2017. The medical record did not contain
any urine drug screens or other diversion or addiction assessments.

41. The Experts found that the Respondent did not meet the appropriate
standard of care for providing quality medical care while treating Patient Five for a
number of reasons, included but not limited to the following:

(f) | The Respondent prescribed Patient Five high doses of Percocet and

oxycodone for many years without appropriate monitoring;

13
(g)

(h)

(i)

(k)

 

Office notes did not contain enough information to explain why
controlled substances were being refilled:

The medical record did not contain adequate informed consent for
narcotic medication;

The Respondent did not assess the effect of the medication or check
for aberrant behavior;

The Respondent did not make referrals to a specialist or attempt to
perform radiological studies to determine the source of the pain; and
The Respondent did not adequately monitor for abuse and/or
diversion of narcotics, with urine screening, blood toxicology tests,

pill counts, or pharmacy checks.

42. — Both Experts opined that the Respondent did not maintain adequate medical

records for a number of reasons, included but not limited to the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

The Respondent did not describe Patient Five’s pain in detail, such
as location, timing and severity of pain;

The Respondent did not prepare a detailed plan of care to justify the
continuation of opioid medication;

The medical records lacked detailed descriptions of the patient’s
pain, such as location, radiation, severity, timing etc.;

Peer Reviewer B noted in his report, that the record contained

inadequate general statements about pain such as, “movements of

14
lumbar spine are painful and somewhat limited,” or “examination is
essentially unchanged;”
(ec) The medical record did not adequately document reasons for
changing medication, or dose amounts; and
() The medical record did not document monitoring for abuse or
diversion of narcotics, such as urine drug screenings.
Summary of Allegations
43. The Respondent’s failure to meet standards of quality medical care
constitutes evidence of violation of Health Occ. §14-404(a)(22).
44, Respondent’s failure to maintain adequate medical records constitutes
evidence of violation of Health Occ. §14-404(a)(40).

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds for
action under Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(22) and/or (40), the disciplinary panel of the Board
may impose disciplinary sanctions against Respondent’s license, including revocation,

suspension, reprimand, probation and/or a monetary penalty.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION
A Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (“DCCR”) conference in this
matter is scheduled for Wednesday, November 14, 2018, at 9:00 a.m., before Panel A at
the Board’s office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and
purpose of the DCCR is described in the attached letter to Respondent. If this matter is

not resolved at the DCCR, a prehearing conference and hearing will be scheduled at the

15
 

Office of Administrative Hearings 11101 Gilroy Road Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031.
The hearing will be conducted in accordance with § 14-405 of the Act and Md. Code

Ann., State Gov't I §§ 10-201 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.).

BRIAN E. FROSH

Attorney-General of Maryland
10 [yp pu

Date Debra A. Smith
Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor
Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Health Occupations Prosecution
& Litigation Division
300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
(410) 767-1846

 

16
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Inder Singh, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF J/f h laud
CITY/COUNTY O 70 (

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this (SS day of March , 2019 before me,
a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Inder Singh, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

——— ——

 

Notary Public

       
 

a «ace NA G MORTIMER
My commission expires: Oe Public-Maryland
Carroll County .
ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this } ) day of Moltt~ , 2019, I,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Inder Singh, M.D.’s license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

  
    

Christine A. Farrelly,
Maryland Board of Physicians
Attachment 1
 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

INDER SINGH, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D18962 * Case Number: 2217-0015-A
* * * & * * * * PS * * * * &

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT
Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
hereby charges INDER SINGH M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number: D18962,
under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il
(“Health Occ. II”) §§ 14-101 ef seg. The Respondent is charged under the following
provisions of Health Occ. II § 14-404(a):
(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer
review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an
outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital or any other location in this

State; [and]

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate
peer review.

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!
The Board bases its charges on the following facts that the Board has cause to

believe are true:

' The allegations set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the alleged
charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence, either
documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with these charges.
 

1. BACKGROUND
1. At all relevant times, the Respondent was and is a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. He was initially licensed in Maryland on

January 30, 1976. The Respondent's license is presently active.

2. The Respondent specializes in internal medicine but was never board-
certified.
3. The Respondent operates a general solo practice in Baltimore, Maryland.

Il. COMPLAINT

4. On February 13, 2017, the Board received an anonymous complaint stating
that the Respondent was overprescribing controlled dangerous substances (CDS) to a
drug addicted patient population for a nominal fee of $100.00.

5. After receiving the Complaint, the Board initiated an investigation.

6. In furtherance of its investigation the Board interviewed the Respondent
and subpoenaed nine (9) patient medical records.

7. The Board then requested that two peer reviewers review the patient
records to determine whether the Respondent complied with the appropriate standard of
care and medical recordkeeping.

Til. SUMMARY OF PEER REVIEW FINDINGS

8. The peer reviewers determined that overall the Respondent did not meet the

appropriate standard of care for the delivery of quality medical care care in 5 of the 9

cases reviewed, for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following:
(a) The medical record did not include adequate information
regarding the location, timing, frequency and intensity of pain;

(b) The medical records often did not include adequate information
on the reasons for continuing to prescribe opioids or the reasons
for increasing or decreasing dosage;

(c) The medical records did not include an adequate plan of care, or
referrals to other specialists;

(d) The Respondent frequently prescribed opioids with highly
abusable medications such as benzodiazepines; and

(e) The Respondent did not follow appropriate guidelines to prevent
narcotic diversion and abuse, such as urine or blood toxicology
screenings, pain contracts, and did not monitor drug databases.

9. The Experts also agreed that the Respondent did not meet the requirements

for maintaining adequate medical records in 5 of the 9 cases reviewed for a number of

reasons, including but not limited to the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Some of the notes in the medical records were handwritten, not
legible and lacked detail;

The records did not contain adequate justification for filling or
refilling controlled substances;

The Respondent’s documentation is brief, and frequently does not

include detailed descriptions of the medical problems, summaries of
labs and imaging findings, referrals to specialists and consultation
findings;
(d) The Respondent’s records lack a reasonable assessment of medical
issues or a plan of care; and
(e) ‘The medical record did not document adequate screening for drug
diversion and addiction,
I. = PATIENT-SPECIFIC ALLEGATIONS
10. Examples of the above investigative findings are set forth in the following
patient-specific findings. These summaries are not intended as, and do not represent, a
complete description of the evidence with respect to the Respondent's conduct in this
matter.
Patient One
11. The Respondent provided treatment for a male Patient, identified
hereinafter as “Patient One.” The records for Patient One covered the years from 1993 to
2017. In 1993 the Respondent treated Patient One for right shoulder pain with non-
narcotic medication. Several years later Patient One complained about knee pain and the
Respondent prescribed Percocet.?
12. The medical record indicates that the Respondent prescribed Percocet for
Patient One as early as August 2002; Patient One was maintained on narcotic medication
for complaints of pain through 2017. The Respondent also treated Patient One for

insomnia, hepatitis, muscle spasms and anxiety.

? Percocet is a schedule If narcotic pain reliever.
 

13. In 2006, Patient One was prescribed narcotics for chronic knee pain and
later had knee replacement surgery.

14. On January 22, 2009, the Respondent saw Patient One for an office visit,
where Patient One complained of back pain, chronic anxiety and insomnia. The
Respondent renewed prescriptions for Percocet 10/325 (one pill four times daily), Soma
350 mg (1 pill twice a day), Xanax 1 mg (at bedtime p.t.n.), and Ambien 12.5 mg (at
bedtime p.r.n.). According to an entry in the record, Patient One “was cautioned about
the mixing of these medications.”

15. On March 10, 2012, Patient One complained of anxiety, low back pain and
left knee pain, but the record does not reflect any details about the symptoms. The
Respondent performed a brief non-specific physical examination.

16. The Respondent prescribed oxycodone? (10 mg) four times per day; Xanax!
(1 mg) twice a day (b. i.d.), Ambien? (12.5 mg) at bedtime (q.h.s)°, and Soma’ (350 mg
b.i.d.). The Respondent saw Patient One every four weeks and maintained him on these
medications for many years.

17. On March 1, 2014, Patient One was diagnosed with autoimmune hepatitis.

He was prescribed Subutex® for a few months, and then the oxycodone was resumed.

> Oxycodone is a schedule II narcotic pain reliever with a high abuse potential.

* Xanax is a benzodiazepine that is used to treat anxiety.

$ Ambien is a sedative used to treat insomnia.

® The abbreviation q.h.s. means every day at bedtime.

7 Soma is a muscle relaxer that blocks pain sensation between the nerves and the brain.

* Subutex (buprenorphine) is a Schedule III Narcotic pain reliever, which is also used to treat opiate addiction.

5
 

18. The Experts agreed that the Respondent did not meet the appropriate

standard of care for the delivery of quality medical care while treating Patient One fora

number of reasons, including but not limited to the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

The medical record does not include information regarding the
location, timing, frequency and intensity of pain;

The medical record does not include adequate information on the
reasons for continuing to prescribe opioids;

The medical record does not include a specific plan of care, or
referral to other specialists to determine the cause of Patient
One’s pain;

The Respondent prescribes opioids with highly abusable
medications such as Xanax and Soma;

The Respondent does not follow appropriate guideliries to prevent
narcotic diversion and abuse such as, pill counts, toxicology
screening, pharmacy checks and regular urine drug tests;

The Respondent prescribed medication to wean Patient One off
narcotics but fails to refer the Patient to an addiction specialist

when these efforts are not successful; and

19. The Experts also agreed that the Respondent did not meet the requirements

for maintaining adequate medical records for a number of reasons, including but not

limited to the following:
