Nagbhushan S. Rao, M.D.

7.22- 2014

Date:

Arun Bhandari, Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Nagbhushan S. Rao, M.D. License Number: D19204
Case Number: 2219-0079

Dear Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.’’)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D19204, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et
seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that during the Board’s investigation, I submitted to an evaluation
to determine my fitness to practice medicine. The evaluation revealed concerns regaring
my fitness to practice. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that
these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion
that I violated Health Occ. §14-404(a)(4), (Is professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
Arun Bhandari, Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Nagbhushan S. Rao, M.D., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that J apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this
letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the
nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I
understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,
Signature of on File

Nagbhushan S. Rao, M.D.
Arun Bhandari, Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Nagbhushan S. Rao, M.D., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3 ‘

NOTARY

stateor M dvy | unk

CITY/COUNTY OF E\ Aug bt

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 22uhay of m f , 2019 before

me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Nagbhushan S.
Rao, M.D., M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the
signing of this Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

MAL
Notary Public
My commission expires: Ju y DAO, De 20
/ BIMAL ADHIKARI
NOTARY PUBLIC
BALTIMORE COUNTY
MARYLAND
ACCEPTANCE My Commission Expires 07-25-2020

On behulfof Disciplinary Panel A, on this 2) “day of tet / , 2019,
I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Nagbhushan S. Rao,

M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature of on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Bxeeftiye Director ()
Maryland Board of Physici
