Date: Rvs st jo, z0z0

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Hatem S. Abdo, M.D.
License Number: D19448
Case Number: 2219-0128

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§ 14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), | have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D19448, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board received and began an investigation into a mandated
10-day report from a hospital stating that they had preliminary concerns regarding my
practice, chiefly with minimally invasive spinal fusion procedures, and that I was taking a
medical leave of absence. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations
and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure
that the allegations in the 10-day report shall be treated as proven and that these allegations
support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) (failure to meet
appropriate standard for delivery of quality medical and surgical care) and (40) (failure to
maintain adequate medical records).

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
Dr. Freas & Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Hatem S. Abdo, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
IT would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland license, I understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if
I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B,
including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
Ihave consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of
Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Sincerely,

Signature on File

Hatem S. Abdo, MD.
Dr. Freas & Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Hatem S. Abdo, M.D.

 
  
 

Letter of Surrender
Page 3
NOTARY
STATE/DISTRICT OF

-CIF¥/COUNTY OF

THEREBY CERTIFY that on this_“4““‘day of L , 2020
before me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, persgnally appeared Hatem S.

Abdo, M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of

 

 

this Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial sea

  

ROOP SAMPATHI
NOTARY PUBLIC
BALTIMORE COUNTY

MARYLAND me; ; é
My Commission Expires 11-24-2023 | My commission expires: | Ie at} *RORZ

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this | OT tay of 4 ux st , 2020,

I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Hatem S. Abdo, M.D.’s

license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File
Christine A. Farrelly| U /)

Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians
