Kempanna Sudhakar M.D.

Date: Mek WG Aojo

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

RE: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D19971
Case Number: 2220-0120 B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that pursuant to Md. Code. Ann., Health Occ. ("Health Oce.")
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol & 2019 Supp.) | have decided to permanently SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D19971,
effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§
14-101 ef seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciptinary Pane! B's (“Panel B “} acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Pane] B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation after receiving a report from
a Maryland hospital that my hospital privileges were suspended due to concerns that
health issues were impacting my ability to practice medicine safely. | acknowledge that
a comprehensive medical evaluation determined that my current health status impairs my
ability to practice medicine safely. As a consequence, | decided to stop practicing
medicine. After | made my decision to ultimately stop practicing medicine, on December
13, 2019, Panel B filed an Order of Summary Suspension, summarily suspending my
license.

| have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of the investigative findings in the

' .
Kempanna Sudhakar, M.D.

Re: Letter of Surrender

License No.: D19971, Case No.: 2220-0120 B
Page 2 of 4

Order of Summary Suspension,’ any subsequent charges under the Act, and due to my
current health and retirement. | acknowledge that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure in Maryland, these investigative findings will be treated as proven and support
a conclusion that | violated Health Occ. §14-404(a)(4).

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit
this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned investigative findings
and any subsequent charges under the Act. | understand that by executing this Letter of
Surrender | am waiving my right to a hearing to contest the Summary Suspension and
any charges that would issue from Panel B's investigative findings. In waiving my right to
contest the investigative findings in the Order of Summary Suspension, ! am also waiving
the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioners’ Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov, §§ 4-101 ef seq., (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Suppl.), and that this Letter of Surrender
is considered a disciplinary action by Panel B.

| affirm that | will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. | also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Dangerous
Substances Administration.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this permanent Letter of Surrender,
my medical license in Maryland will remain PERMANENTLY surrendered. In other words,
| agree that | have no right to reapply for a medical license and will not reapply for a
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

| acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. | wish to make clear that | have been advised of my right to
be represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B. |
have consulted with and was represented by an attorney throughout proceedings before
Panel B and prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice
medicine in Maryland.

| fully understand both the nature of Panel B's actions and this letter of Surrender.
! acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and

‘Upon Panel B's acceptance of the Permanent Letter of Surrender, | understand that the Order of Summary
Suspension issued on December 13, 2019, is terminated as moot.

2
Kempanna Sudhakar, M.D.

Re: Letter of Surrender

License No.: 019971, Case No.: 2220-0120 B
Page 3 of 4

effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | voluntarily choose to surrender my
Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms and conditions set out herein.
| make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File
Kempanna Sudhakar, M.D.

NOTARY
STATE OF MARYLAND
t laud

CITY/COUNTY OF Ay i

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this! day of _ March
2126_, before me, a Notary Public of the State and City/County aforesaid, personally
appear KEMPANNA SUDHAKAR, M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties
of perjury that signing the foregoing Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Nofary Public NHAGt C. TRAN

NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MARVLANE!

 

My Commission Expires March 8, 2022

My Commission expires:

 
Kempanna Sudhakar, M.D.

Re: Letter of Surrender

License No.: D19971, Case No.: 2220-0120 B
Page 4 of 4

ACCEPTANCE
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 2 Gay of M a vide
2020, | Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC PERMANENT SURRENDER of
the license of KEMPANNA SUDHAKAR, WN.D. to practice medicine in the State of

Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Dirgctor
Maryland State Board of Physicians’
