IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MOHAMMED M. MOHIUDDIN, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D20015 * Case Number: 2221-0078
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of MOHAMMED M.
MOHIUDDIN, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number D20015, to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”)
10.32.02.08B(7)(a), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively
requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the

following facts are true: !

' The statements regarding Panel B’s investigative findings are intended to provide the Respondent with
notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
L BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on December 16, 1976, under License Number D20015. The
Respondent’s license is current through September 30, 2021.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in urology.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent is the sole owner and provider
at a health care group (the “Health Care Group”)? located in Frederick, Maryland. The
Health Care Group also has a practice location in Charles Town, West Virginia. The
Respondent has clinical privileges at a health care facility (‘Health Care Facility A”)
located in Frederick, Maryland.

4, On December 2, 2020, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report (the
“November 20, 2020 Report”) from Health Care Facility A reporting it had imposed a
precautionary administrative suspension on the Respondent’s privileges, after his
performance in two surgical procedures on November 16, 2020. On January 11, 2021, the
Board received a subsequent Mandated 10-Day Report (the “December 15, 2020 Report”)
from Health Care Facility A reporting its investigation into the Respondent was terminated
and his clinical privileges were changed to “’Refer and Follow Patients.” 4
? For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in
this case are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and
health care facilities referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

3 Health Care Facility A filed two Mandated 10-Day Reports, but has not provided the underlying

documents such as staff comments and interviews. As a result, the Board has been significantly delayed in
its efforts to investigate the allegations related to the November 16, 2020 surgical procedures.
II. BOARD INVESTIGATION

5. On February 19, 2021, the Board received the Respondent’s written response
to the Mandated 10-Day Reports. In the letter, the Respondent defended his performance
during the two November 16, 2020 procedures at issue. The Respondent further stated he
elected to change his clinical privileges with Health Care Facility A to “Refer and Follow
Patients.”

6. As early as June 2020, staff of Health Care Facility A raised concerns
regarding the Respondent’s demeanor and ability to safely perform surgical procedures.

7. On June 2, 2020, during a procedure to remove a kidney stone and insert a
stent, a staff member of Health Care Facility A observed the Respondent apparently unable
to see the guide wire via real time on fluoroscopy. The Respondent repeatedly asked a staff
member of Health Care Facility A to tell him when the guide wire was in the kidney, and
believed the Respondent could not see the wire.

8. On June 4, 2020, during a procedure, a staff member of Health Care Facility
A observed the Respondent not visualize a 3x4 cm bladder mass despite passing by it
several times with a cystoscope. The Respondent announced he was aborting the procedure
when staff of Health Care Facility A pointed that the tumor was “right there.” Staff of
Health Care Facility A observed the Respondent holding his head to the side to look at the
monitor with his right eye only as though the Respondent was compensating for vision
issues. These concerns prompted Health Care Facility A to administratively suspend the
Respondent from performing surgical procedures and referred the Respondent for a June

10, 2020 medical examination. As a result of the examination, Health Care Facility A
required the Respondent to wear glasses during surgical procedures and removed the
suspension on June 11, 2020.

9. On June 29, 2020, the Respondent was observed by staff of Health Care
Facility A performing a prostate needle biopsy on a patient. There are 12 pre-labeled
specimen cassettes used during the procedure. As each specimen was received from the
Respondent, staff of Health Care Facility A confirmed with the Respondent which
specimen was received. During this procedure, staff observed the Respondent forgetting
what specimens he was giving to staff. When staff confronted the Respondent about the
specimen confusion, he stated: “It doesn’t matter, just put them anywhere.” After staff
responded that it “does really matter,” the Respondent “ripped” off his gown and gloves
and said “he was done,” grabbed a patient label and walked out of the room prior to a
debriefing. Staff observed that only 10 of the 12 specimens were collected. However, the
procedure note authored by the Respondent noted 12 biopsies were taken and that two
specimens were placed in containers holding other specimens by staff.

10. On July 9, 2020, Health Care Facility A referred the Respondent to an
evaluative program. While awaiting evaluation, the Respondent was placed on
precautionary suspension by Health Care Facility A. The evaluation occurred and an
Executive Summary issued on August 19, 2020.4 On or about August 26, 2020, Health

Care Facility A reinstated the Respondent’s privileges.

4 The nature of the report is confidential.
11. Thereafter, on November 16, 2020, the Respondent initiated two surgical
procedures. The Respondent was unsuccessful in performing the intended procedures,
displayed vision and dexterity problems during the procedures, refused to wear his
prescription glasses during the procedures, had a visible hand tremor and the procedures
took much longer than expected.

12. The first procedure was a left percutaneous nephrectomy with placement of
an occlusion balloon catheter in the left ureter. During the procedure, staff of Health Care
Facility A observed that for 60-90 minutes the Respondent had difficulty cannulating the
patient’s ureter and was unable to locate the ureteral orifice in the bladder. This caused
trauma to the bladder, resulting in bleeding. The patient was admitted to Health Care
Facility A with bladder irrigation for the hematuria.

13. During this first procedure, supervisory staff at Health Care Facility A was
alerted that Respondent refused to wear his glasses as required, and the procedure was
taking longer than expected. Supervisory staff at Health Care Facility A alerted leadership
of the Respondent’s actions during the first procedure by text message: “Please call me.
We need someone ASAP. He doesn’t have his glasses on and won’t put them on, because
he can’t see. The FA [first assistant] and scrub tech are giving him direct guidance. He has
a ureter in his hand and can’t thread the catheter. He can’t see.” The Respondent thereafter
was directed to wear his glasses.

14. Additionally, during the first procedure, staff of Health Care Facility A

observed the Respondent having a visible hand tremor.
15. The second procedure involved a right laparoscopic pyeloplasty the
Respondent was unable to complete. During the procedure, the Respondent was unable to
thread the catheter and was observed to have difficulty seeing. The staff of Health Care
Facility A were concerned about excessive delay of several hours, the inability of the
Respondent to thread the catheter and observed vision and dexterity problems, including a
visible tremor of the right hand.

16. During the second procedure, staff of Health Care Facility A alerted
leadership and supervisory staff of concerns about the Respondent; specifically that he had
a visible tremor and they did not feel comfortable with the Respondent continuing the
procedure. Supervisory staff and leadership of Health Care Facility A physically went to
the location of the second procedure, called a safety timeout and ordered the Respondent
to stop the case. Thereafter, arrangements were made for another urologist to complete the
procedure to assure patient safety.

17. Leadership at Health Care Facility A stated: “To my observation as having
come in later on in the procedure to observe, there was a stent cannulation process that was
required for the ureter and the stent was not going into the ureter as planned, it was curling
up. And rather than attempt another technique, there was an effort made multiple times to,
to do the procedure in the same fashion. And the concern from my standpoint...was the
potential injury to the ureter, and so we had a, another urologist come in and successfully

assist with that.”
18. During the second procedure and after the safety timeout, the Respondent
had a visible tremor in his right hand and was supporting it with his left hand across his
chest. The procedure took 3 hours longer than planned.

19. On April 28, 2021, Panel B referred the Respondent to a Board-approved
program for evaluation pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402. On May 3, 2021, the Respondent
met with staff of the Board-approved program for the intake evaluation. The evaluator
determined that “it is not safe for [the Respondent] to practice urological surgery at this
time.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B concludes as a mattcr of
law that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2020 Supp.)
and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).

ORDER

It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7)(a), the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and
it is further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with COMAR

10.32.02.05B(7) on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, May 26, 2021,
at 1:00 p.m. before Panel B at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation hearing before Panel B,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request within ten (10)
days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2020 Supp.); and
it is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Disciplinary Panel B, and as such, is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen.

Provisions § 4-333(b)(6).

ae Signature on File
05/14/2007 7 ;
bo eter tly i

Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
