Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D.

Harbhajan Singh Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B _

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D.

License Number: D20441

Case Number: 2223-0079

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §14-403,
Thave decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License
Number D20441, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as
it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 e¢ seq. and
other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed
individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes 2a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report from a hospital stating
that I was terminated after an internal investigation, which included an audit of my computer usage,
a review of patient records, and hospital video surveillance that found that I created medical
records that indicated that I had seen and rounded on eight patients that I did not physically
assess. The Board began an investigation of these allegations. I have decided to surrender my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these allegations and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (11).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s
Harbhajan Singh Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D.

Letter of Surrender

Page 2

investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other

substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court,

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender
may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq., and that this
Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender my

Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. | further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement,
1 will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv truly vours.

Signature On File

Joseph L, Raffetto, M.D.
Harbhajan Singh Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D.

Letter of Surrender

Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF _fi{ ay lan>
CITY/COUNTY OF! (7}C) i) 40

a :
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 1 day of Caleb, , 2023, before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D., and declared

and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was
voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

gos Milton Glen Catlin J | Zo
f Wicomico County MD l

Commission Expires
January 4th 2025

My commission expires: 9°/0*!/ 22>

 

Notary Public

ACCEPTANCE

dS a
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this oF day of Defic. 2023, I, Christine A.

Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D.’s license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

e e
Signature On File
Christine A. Farrelly, Exe’ tive Dire

Maryland Board of eesti
