 

John L. Hill, M.D.

Date: aer4

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: | Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
John L. Hill, M.D. License Number: D20662
Case Number: 2219-0131B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to permanently SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number: D20662,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that on April 9, 2019, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against
me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4). I have decided to permanently surrender my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these disciplinary charges and due to my current health and retirement.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender | am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: John L. Hill, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that
this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
Ihave no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both
the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. l acknowledge
that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

John L. Hill, M.D.
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: John L. Hill, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

STATE onary lanc|

| CITY/COUNTY or fince, George's
| I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 1 _day of August , 2019 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared John L. Hill M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

NOTARY

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

gio

My commission expires: Apr 10, 202 : 9 a8

SHANNON NOELLE WINGFIELD
Notary Public-Maryland

 

Prince George's County

ne aia ACCEPTANCE on

wa: fate of
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 13 day of ST, 2019, I,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC PERMANENT SURRENDER of John L. Hill,
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

   

 

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly/1 Execlitive Director
Maryland Board of Physici
