 

Mohammad Tagqi, M.D.

Date: Febartay Lb, A021

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Mohammad Taqi, M.D.

License Number: D21859

Case Number: 2221-0062

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Ocec.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D21859, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 ef seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint based on my fitness to practice
medicine due to my current health status and initiated an investigation into the allegations.
I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my
retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. § 14-404 (a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand
that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
 

 

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Mohammad Taqi, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 er seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), and that
this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter
of Surrender, I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this
letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. J understand
both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

Mohammad Taqi, M.D.
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Mohammad Tagqi, M.D.
Letter of Surrender

Page 3
NOTARY
|
state or_!Me-y lend
CITY/COUNTY OF __|{sberd

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this __|Gday of februe- , 2021 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Clo-ks vi lie, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was voluntary.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

 
  

   
 
  

ul yi 4 (oceania
My commission expires:_[/ '(/2°23 | CHRISTOPHER A. ARBOLEDA
Notary Public
Anne Arundel County
Maryland
My Commission Expires Apr. 14, 2023
ACCEPTANCE

 

+t es
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this | 1 day of fokwas 2021, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Mohammad Tagi, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Bisclbivg Pires ()
Maryland Board of Physicia
