IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

RAVINDER RUSTAGI, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS

License Number: D24720 * Case Number: 2016-0933B

HRKRKERKRK ERK RK KEKE REE IRIE RIKI REAR III III III IIR IK IK III III III III IAI AISI IIK IAHR.

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the medical license of Ravinder Rustagi, M.D. (the
“Respondent’), License Number D24720. Disciplinary Panel B takes such action
pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl.
Vol. & 2015 Supp.), concluding that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively
requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS'

Based on information received by, and made known to Disciplinary Panel B of
the Board, and the investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known
to and available to Disciplinary Panel B and the Office of the Attorney General, including
the instances described below, Disciplinary Panel B has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:

' The statements regarding the Respondent's conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent with
this matter.
BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant, the Respondent was a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed in Maryland
on or about February 11, 1980, and his license is presently active through September
30, 2017.

2. The Respondent, trained as a cardiologist, is not board-certified. At all times
relevant, he practiced internal medicine and cardiology in a private practice with
locations in Bowie and Cheverly, Maryland, and held hospital privileges at two Prince
George’s County hospitals, Hospitals A and B.”

3. On or about May 13, 2016, the Board received a 10-day Mandated Report from
Hospital A (the “Report’) notifying the Board that the Respondent’s privileges had been
suspended on May 6, 2016 for 14 days because he “presented an imminent danger to
the health and safety” of Hospital A’s patients and staff, and his conduct interfered with
the orderly operations of Hospital A. The suspension was based on multiple complaints
that had been received alleging the Respondent had engaged in disruptive conduct with
patients and staff at Hospital A including berating staff and patients, disrupting orderly
hospital operations, inappropriately documenting personal complaints in patient records,
and inflicting pain on a patient by squeezing her wrist until she screamed, despite her
prior objection that his actions had caused pain to her wrist.

4. Based on the Report, the Board initiated an investigation, and on or about July

13, 2016, notified the Respondent and requested a written response to the allegations.

2 In order to maintain confidentiality, facility, patient and employee names will not be used in this
document, but will be provided to the Respondent on request.

2
5. On or about July 27, 2016, the Respondent, through his attorney, submitted a
written response to the complaint, denying the allegations and stating in part that
Hospital A was retaliating against the Respondent as a “whistle blower.”
6. On or about August 5, 2016, the Respondent submitted to the Board a second
written response, reiterating the allegations were false and contending that Hospital A
was “retaliating against me for documenting poor medical practices.”
7. During the course of the Board’s investigation into Hospital A’s allegations, Board
staff discovered that at the request of Hospital A, the Circuit Court for Prince George’s
County had issued a Temporary Restraining Order to the Respondent prohibiting his
entry to Hospital A for reasons set forth below.
8. On or about August 10, 2016, also during the course of the Board’s investigation
of Hospital A’s Report, Board staff discovered that Hospital B was conducting an inquiry
into the Respondent's conduct after receiving multiple complaints alleging disruptive
conduct toward staff and patients.

The Board’s investigative findings are set forth, in pertinent part below:
HOSPITAL A
9. On or about May 6, 2016, Hospital A issued to the Respondent a precautionary
suspension of his privileges. Hospital A notified the Respondent that he could not enter
Hospital A or have contact with any patients.
10. The precautionary suspension imposed by Hospital A was based on multiple
complaints filed by Hospital A’s staff that took place largely during April and May 2016

alleging unprofessional, inappropriate and hostile behavior directed toward staff with
patients present. Additionally, the Respondent documented inappropriate comments in
patient records regarding Hospital A’s staff.

11. On or about May 7, 2016, despite Hospital A’s suspension of the Respondent's
hospital privileges, the Respondent attempted to gain entry to Hospital A in order to
treat a patient in the Cardiac Care Unit. Hospital A’s Staff and Security force barred the
Respondent's entry and the Respondent reportedly engaged in “a lot of yelling” as
witnessed by Hospital A’s staff, that “woke up most of the patients and family members.”
12. On or about May 17, 2016, Hospital A found that based on the Respondent’s
conduct, he was “likely an impaired practitioner” as defined by Hospital A’s bylaws and
procedures, and pursuant to the American Medical Association’s (“AMA's”) definition.°
In resolution of the precautionary suspension, Hospital A provided the Respondent with
an opportunity to take a voluntary leave of absence and to participate in the Maryland
Physician Health Program (“MPHP’). Upon the Respondent's successful
participation/completion of the MPHP, Hospital A would allow the Respondent to
request reinstatement of his privileges. If the Respondent did not accept Hospital A’s
offer, Hospital A would terminate the Respondent's hospital privileges and membership,
and he would be entitled to an evidentiary hearing.

13. On or about May 27, 2016, the Circuit Court for Prince George’s County granted
to Hospital A a Temporary Restraining Order (“TRO”) against the Respondent based on
his failure to comply with the terms of the Precautionary Suspension imposed on May 6,

2016, as outlined in J 11.

° AMA ethical provision 9.031 defines impairment as a condition that interferes with the
Clinician’s ability to engage safely in professional activities.

4
14. On or about June 2, 2016, the Respondent accepted Hospital A’s offer to take a
voluntary leave of absence and to initiate participation in the MPHP.*

15. On or about June 3, 2016, in resolution of the “TRO”, the Respondent and
Hospital A entered into a Consent Order that included a condition prohibiting the
Respondent from entering Hospital A without an invitation from the administrative staff
until his clinical privileges were restored.

HOSPITAL B

16. During the course of the Board’s investigation, Board staff subpoenaed a copy
of the Respondent’s credentials and quality assurance file from Hospital B.

17. | Several complaints had been filed by Hospital B’s staff that alleged between April
and August 2016, the Respondent had engaged in disruptive behavior with staff and
patients.

18. On or about June 6, 2016, Hospital B notified the Respondent that he had
engaged in unacceptable practice patterns in April 2016 with regard to a male patient,
Patient A, that included disruptive behavior, and the Respondent yelling at Patient A,
stating,“...lf you go ahead to surgery today | will never see you or treat you again and
you cannot call me again. If you have this surgery today, you will die.” Hospital B
described the Respondent's actions as “concerning.”

19. On or about June 6, 2016, the Respondent telephoned the Chief Medical Officer
(“CMO”) to request placement on Hospital B’s “call schedule”; however, the CMO
refused the Respondent's request based on his (the Respondent’s) past on-call

performance and his recent unprofessional activity. According to the CMO, the

* On or about June 22, 2016, the Respondent presented to MPHP for an evaluation. By letter dated
August 19. 2016, MPHP closed the Respondent’s case as he refused to pursue an evaluation for
treatment at either of the facilities recommended by MPHP.

5
Respondent's response to his refusal was “belligerent....and...threatening.” The loud,
angry tone of the Respondent's voice during the telephone conversation necessitated
that the CMO abruptly terminate the call.

20. On or about August 1, 2016, the CMO wrote a letter to the Respondent that
Hospital B had received a complaint the Respondent had been acting unprofessionally
in the presence of a patient (“Patient B”) that included “yelling” at Patient B with regard
to changing her code status. When Nurse A, Patient B’s assigned nurse, attempted to
speak with the Respondent about Patient B, the Respondent reacted by telling Nurse A
he was incompetent, taking his (the Respondent’s) hearing aids out, plugging his ears
with his fingers and walking away. The CMO described the Respondent’s conduct as
“concerning” and that he was being evaluated pursuant to Hospital B’s Disruptive
Medical Staff Member policy.

21. Also, on or about August 1, 2016 the CMO wrote a letter to the Respondent
notifying him that he had engaged in unprofessional behavior toward the nursing and
volunteer staff when he made condescending remarks and yelled at staff with regard to
another patient's care (“Patient C”). The CMO noted, “Dr. Rustagi has shown a period
of unprofessional behavior that has affected many staff members of late...”

22. On or about August 18, 2016, Board staff conducted an interview of the CMO.
He stated that Hospital B is presently evaluating the allegations with regard to the

Respondent's conduct indicating that recent behaviors “point to a larger issue.”
CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the foregoing facts, the Board concludes that the public health, safety
or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., State Gov't. § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol.).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing, it is, by a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel B,

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §
10-226(c)(2), the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland be
and is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED, and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with Code Regs. Md.
10.32.02.09B (7) (c), D and E on the Summary Suspension has been scheduled for
September 28, 2016, at 11:15 a.m., at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing held
before Disciplinary Panel B, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the
hearing, may request within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be
held within thirty (30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the
Office of Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt
Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further

ORDERED that on presentation of this Order, the Respondent SHALL
SURRENDER to the Board’s Compliance Analyst, the following items:

(1) | the Respondent's original Maryland License D24720; and
 

(2) | the Respondent’s current renewal certificate; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.&
2015 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is a Final Order of the Board and, as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.

OFf14/Z01¢

Date

  

Christine A. Farrel
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

  
 
