Kamakshi Neelkantan, M.D.
4 Westbury Lane
Newark, Delaware 19711

Date: May 11, 2022

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Kamakshi Neelkantan, M.D.
License Number: D24744
Case Number: 7722-0029

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §14-403
(2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, License Number D24744, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not practice medicine, with or without compensation, in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§
14-101 et seg, and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as
an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board’).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on May 14,
2021, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) (fails to
meet the appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of
quality medical care in this State) and (40) (Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined
by appropriate peer review). I resolved these disciplinary charges through a Consent Order with
Panel A, dated September 14, 2021, in which Panel A found that I had violated Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(22) and (40). The Consent Order reprimanded me, placed me on probation for a
minimum of two (2) years, required that I successfully complete courses in medication-assisted
treatment and recordkeeping, required that I be supervised by a Panel-approved supervisor who is
board-certified in addiction medicine, and required that I pay a fine of $2,500.00 within two years
of the effective date of the Consent Order.

After issuing two extensions for me to find a supervisor to comply with the 2021 Consent
Order, the Panel issued an order of suspension, on February 22, 2022, in accordance with the
terms of the 2021 Consent Order.. (Attached as Exhibit 1). On March 23, 2022, Panel A issued a
Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause alleging that I violated the supervisory

 
Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Kamakshi Neelkantan, M.D.

Letier of Surrender
Page 2

Show Cause, because I no tonger wish to comply with the terms of the 2021 Consent Order, and
because I am retiring from the practice of medicine, | acknowledge that the allegations in the
Violation of Boatd Order and Notice to Show Cause are treated as proven and the 2021 Consent
Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon
acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the
Order as long as 1 do not have or possess an active medical license in Maryland.

1 wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing to comply with
the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I
understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest the
Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause in a formal hearing at which 1 would have
had the right to counsel and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law.

T understand thal the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. T algo understand that in the event |
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq.
(2019), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

Taffirm that T will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. T also agree to surrender my
Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration,

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license in
Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement, In the event
that | apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel A or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms
and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of
the integrity and reputation of the profession. 1 further understand that if I file a petition for

_ reinstatement, 1 will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

Lacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. | consulted with and was
represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine
in Maryland. t understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. T
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of
this Letter of Surrender. 1 make this decision knowingly and voluntarily,

Very truly yours,

. A eZ
Signature on File

/

' Kamakshi Neelkantan, M.D. ‘

SS

 
Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Kamakshi Neelkantan, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY
STATE OF (a

CITY/COUNTY OF zy, Ca she

THEREBY CERTIFY that on this _fd day of YZ « , 2022 before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Kamakshi Neclkantan, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender
was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

   

    

ee Lex CE [Spee

Notary Public

ep

  

 

TARA A BOGIA
Notary Public
State of Delaware p
ion Expires on Jun 7, 2023 f\

    
 

oe My commission expires:

    
 

    

(| My Commi

ACCEPTANCE

 

 

Farrelly, accept Kamakshi Neelkantan, M.D.’s, PUBLIC DER of her license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland,

ue
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this ! | day of Mace. 2022, I, Christine A.
SURR!

e e
Signature on File
Christine A. Farrelly Entecpuivg Director ()
Maryland Board of Physicidas

 
Exhibit 1
IN THE MATTER OF

KAMAKSHI NEELKANTAN, M.D.

Respondent

License Number: D24744

* * * * * *

BEFORE THE

MARYLAND STATE

BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

Case Number: 7722-0029

* * * * * *

ORDER OF SUSPENSION

On September 14, 2021, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of

Physicians (the “Board”) and Kamashi Neelkantan, M.D., entered into Consent Order wherein the

Panel concluded, as a matter of law, that Dr. Neelkantan had failed to meet the appropriate standards

for the delivery of quality medical care and failed to keep adequate medical records as determined

by appropriate peer review. Dr. Neelkantan was reprimanded, placed on probation for a minimum of

two (2) years, and required to comply with certain terms and conditions, including:

“QE.]

(a) — within 30 CALENDAR DAYS of the effective date of this Consent Order,

[Dr. Neelkantan] shall provide the disciplinary panel with the name, pertinent

professional background information of the supervisor whom the Respondent

is offering for approval, and written notice to the disciplinary panel from the

supervisor confirming his or her acceptance of the supervisory role of [Dr.

Neelkantan] and that there is no personal or professional relationship with the

supervisor.”

The Consent Order also stated:
(c) if [Dr. Neelkantan] fails to provide a proposed supervisor’s name within 30
calendar days from the effective date of the order, [Dr. Neelkantan] license
shall be automatically suspended from the 31st day until [Dr. Neelkantan]
provides the name and background of a supervisor[.]

On November 18, 2021, Panel A extended the deadline to December 20, 2021 for Dr.
Neelkantan to propose a supervisor.

On January 12, 2022, Panel A again extended the deadline to February 18, 2022 for Dr.
Neelkantan to propose a supervisor.

To date, Dr. Neelkantan has not proposed a supervisor for the Board’s approval. It is thus,
pursuant to the September 14, 2021 Consent Order, hereby

ORDERED that Dr. Neelkantan’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland is
hereby SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Neelkantan’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
shall remain suspended until she proposes a supervisor for Panel A’s approval; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document.

pa loa/o¢ Signature on File

Date ’ j Christine A. Farrelly | U) ()

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
