 

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Robert J. Reilly, M.D.

License Number: D24986

Case Number: 7718-0057

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.
IT”) § 14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D24986, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. II §§ 14-101 et
seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
August 28, 2017, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(22) (violation of the standard of care) and (40) (fails to keep adequate medical
records). I resolved these disciplinary charges through entering into a Consent Order
with Panel A, dated November 28, 2017, (the “Consent Order’), in which Panel A found
that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) and (40). Under the Consent Order, I was
reprimanded, placed on probation for a minimum of one (1) year and required to comply
with certain terms and conditions, including: cease treating patients for chronic pain;
completion of Board disciplinary panel-approved courses in medical recordkeeping and
prescribing of opioid medication; and completion of a chart and/or peer review at the
Board’s discretion. A copy of the Consent Order is attached and incorporated herein as
Attachment 1.
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Robert J. Reilly, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order and
due to my retirement from the practice of medicine. I acknowledge that the Consent
Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon
acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions
of the Order as long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender in lieu of complying with the terms and conditions I
agreed to in the Consent Order.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014),
and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
her back and knees. The Respondent started Patient D on hydrocodone QID, and then
switched her to oxycodone 10 mg QID. The Respondent added MS Contin 15 mg in
2016, and alprazolam TID plus Ativan and Trazadone. The Respondent maintained
Patient D on this regimen for many months.

16. The Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records, in violation of
Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to Patient D. The Respondent failed to
document urine drug screening for medication compliance. In his progress notes, the
Respondent, although briefly mentioning the patient's diagnoses, failed to adequately
document Patient D’s pain complaints and his rationale for opioid prescriptions. The
Respondent failed to document a detailed medical history or physical examination, and
failed to document a specific description of Patient D's pain complaints, including location,
character, severity, exacerbating or relieving factors and associated symptoms.

Patient E

17. Patient E, a woman then in her mid-50s, began seeing the Respondent for
medical care in or around 2015. Patient E’s medical history included hypertension,
chronic cough and non-specific back pain. The Respondent started Patient E on Tylenol
with codeine 100 tablets per month then changed her medication to hydrocodone 10 mg
five times per day. The Respondent maintained Patient E on these medications for many
months.

18. The Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records, in violation of
Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to Patient E. The Respondent failed to
document urine drug screening for medication compliance. The Respondent failed to

consistently record his rationale for prescribing opioid medications. The Respondent
failed to document a detailed medical history or physical examination, and failed to
document a specific description of Patient E’s pain complaints, including location,
character, severity, exacerbating or relieving factors and associated symptoms.
Patient F

19. Patient F, then a man in his mid-50s, began seeing the Respondent for
medical care in or around 2012. Patient F had a medical history that included a rotator
cuff tear and surgical repair of the left shoulder, occurring in 2011; chronic, active hepatitis
C; alcohol abuse; psychiatric issues; and cervical and lumbar spondylosis. In 2014,
Patient F sustained another rotator cuff injury and underwent a right shoulder repair.
Patient F reportedly underwent treatment with a pain medicine specialist in 2013 and
underwent facet denervation. The specialist recommended that Patient F not receive
benzodiazepines with opioid medications. From 2012 to 2016, the Respondent
maintained Patient F on hydrocodone 5 mg QID, Ativan 1 mg BID and Meloxicam 15 mg.

20. The Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records, in violation of
Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to Patient F. The Respondent failed to
document a detailed medical history or physical examination, and failed to document a
specific description of Patient F’s pain complaints, including location, character, severity,
exacerbating or relieving factors and associated symptoms. The Respondent failed to
document urine drug screening for medication compliance. The Respondent’s progress
notes frequently fail to adequately document his medical decision-making in treating this
patient, who had a history of alcohol abuse and hepatitis C, with a combination of opioids,
benzodiazepines and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications for a prolonged time

period. The Respondent failed to document the results of liver function tests.
Supplemental response from the Respondent

21. The Board provided the Respondent with the reports from the reviewers.
The Respondent submitted a response to the Board, which it received on or about June
9, 2017. The Respondent stated that his office was implementing an electronic medical
records system and that “many of the concerns in the reviews will be corrected.” The
Respondent further stated that in the past year, his office was performing more urine drug
screens, and that in the past several months, he was weaning his patients who were on
opioids and benzodiazepines off the benzodiazepine medications.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated the following provision of the Act: Health Occ. Il § 14-
404(a)(22), Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review
for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical
facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this State; and Health Occ. Il § 14-
404(a)(40), Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer

review.

ORDER

 

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on probation for a minimum period of

ONE (1) YEAR,’ to begin upon the effective date of this Consent Order, subject to the
following probationary terms and conditions:

1. The Respondent shall not treat patients for chronic pain;

2. Within six (6) months, the Respondent shall successfully complete a
Board disciplinary panel-approved course in the appropriate prescribing of opioid
medications. The panel will not accept a course taken over the Internet. The course may
not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits required for license renewal.
The Respondent must provide documentation to the panel that the Respondent has
successfully completed the course;

3. Within six (6) months, the Respondent shall successfully complete a
Board disciplinary panel-approved course in the appropriate medical recordkeeping. The
course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits required for
license renewal. The Respondent must provide documentation to the Board that the
Respondent has successfully completed the course;

4. The Panel will issue administrative subpoenas to the Maryland
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program on a quarterly basis for the Respondent's CDS
prescriptions. The administrative subpoenas will request a review of the Respondent's
CDS prescriptions from the beginning of each quarter;

5. During the probationary period, the Respondent is subject to a chart

and/or peer review conducted by the Board or Board disciplinary panel or its agents at

2 If the Respondent's license expires while the Respondent is on probation, the probationary period and
any probationary conditions will be tolled.

10
the Board’s discretion. An unsatisfactory chart and/or peer review will constitute a
violation of probation.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply
with any term or condition of probation or of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be
given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material
fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel A; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or Board disciplinary
panel determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of
probation or this Consent Order, the Board or Board disciplinary panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or
suspend or revoke the Respondent's license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board
or Board disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth
above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation;
and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and condition of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that after ONE (1) YEAR, the Respondent may submit a written petition
to the Board or Panel A requesting termination of probation. After consideration of the

petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of the Board or Panel A. The

11
Respondent may be required to appear before the Board or Panel A to discuss his petition
for termination. The Board or Panel A will grant the petition to terminate the probation if
the Respondent has complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and there
are no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice
Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il §§ 14-101 -- 14-702, and all laws, statutes and
regulations governing the practice of medicine.

ORDERED that unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board's Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
the Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014).

i} [25 (201 7
Date

   

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT
1, Robert J. Reilly, M.D., acknowledge that | have had the opportunity to consult
with counsel before signing this document. By this Consent, | agree and accept to be
bound by this Consent Order and its conditions and restrictions. | waive any rights | may

have had to contest the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

12
| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. | acknowledge the legal
authority and the jurisdiction of Panel A to initiate these proceedings and to issue and
enforce this Consent Order. | also affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse
ruling of Disciplinary Panel B that might have followed any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having had an opportunity to consult with counsel,
without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the language, meaning and

terms of this Consent Order. | voluntarily sign this Order, and understand its meaning

and effect.

il [22/ [?
Date
Read and approved:
( ah IQ Nhe es

Catherine W. Steiner, Esquire
Counsel for Dr. Reilly

Signature on File

Kobert J. Reilly, VeLé
Respondent ( Ye

NOTARY

STATE OF Marylanol
CITY/COUNTY OF _ lor oti

ad
| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this_2.2- day of M 2017)

2017, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, did personally

13
appear Robert J. Reilly, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing

Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notary seal.

    
     
  

VICTORIA G. TRADER
NOTARY PUBLIC
WORCESTER COUNTY

    

Notary Public

My commission expires:

14
 

Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Robert J. Reilly, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Signature on File

e
Robert J. Reilly, Mpé

NOTARY
STATE OF Mal.
CITY/COUNTY OF _ Woreester—
Yh
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this |(p day of April , 2018 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Robert Feil M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

  
       
     

O
Notary Public wor CESTER COUNTY

MARYLAND |

My commission expires: My COMMISSION EXPIRE

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A. on this 19% day of Apne. 2018, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Fx bet Res yd. s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

 
ATTACHMENT 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
ROBERT J. REILLY, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D24986 * Case Number: 2017-0095A
* * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

On August 28, 2017, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged ROBERT J. REILLY, M.D. (the “Respondent’),
License Number D24986, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ. II”) §§ 14-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.).

Specifically, Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following
provisions of the Act under Health Occ. Il § 14-404:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this

subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of

the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,

place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if

the licensee:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,

office, hospital, or any other location in this State; [and]

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review[.]
 

On November 15, 2017, the Respondent appeared before Panel A, sitting as a
Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution. Asa result of negotiations occurring before
Panel A, the Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of
Procedural Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and

Notary.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A makes the following Findings of Fact:
I. Background

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on or about June 19, 1980, under License Number 24986. The
Respondent's license is currently active and is scheduled for renewal on September 30,
2017.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in family medicine.

3. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent maintained a medical
office at 505 Main Street, Salisbury, Maryland 21804.
I. The complaint

4. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a

complaint, dated August 5, 2016, from a pharmacist (the "Complainant")' who reported

| For confidentiality purposes, the names of the Complainant, patients or other individuals have not been
identified in this charging document. The Respondent is aware of the identity of all individuals referenced
herein.
concerns about the Respondent's prescribing practices after one of the Respondent’s
patients fainted in the pharmacy’s waiting room on August 4, 2016.
I. Board investigative findings

5. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained a series of patient charts
from the Respondent for review. The Board referred the patient charts and related
materials to its peer review entity for a practice review. The peer reviewers found
deficiencies in the Respondent's prescribing practices and recordkeeping, which
constituted violations of the Act.

6. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. II § 14-404(a)(40), as set forth in
the following patient summaries.

Patient A

7. Patient A, a woman then in her late-50s, began seeing the Respondent for
medical care in or around October 2015, with complaints of back and knee pain. The
Respondent prescribed high dosages of pain medications for prolonged periods of time,
including oxycodone 15 mg three times per day (“TID”); extended release morphine, MS
Contin 15 mg TID; and in addition, a benzodiazepine, alprazolam, 30 tablets per month.
The Respondent maintained Patient A on these medications for several months.

8. In or around July 2016, Patient A went to the emergency room with
symptoms of a drug overdose and was diagnosed with drug dependency issues. The
Respondent resumed prescribing high-dosage opioid medications to Patient A after this

incident.
9. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to
Patient A. The Respondent prescribed high dosages of opioid pain medications for
prolonged periods of time without appropriate justification. The Respondent
inappropriately continued to prescribe high dosages of opioid pain medications after
Patient A was treated for a drug overdose and was diagnosed with a “drug dependency
problem.” The Respondent failed to exercise appropriate clinical judgment or document
an appropriate clinical rationale for maintaining Patient A on this medication regimen after
her hospitalization for a drug overdose. The Respondent inappropriately prescribed high
dosages of opioid medications in conjunction with benzodiazepines. The Respondent
failed to order or document urine drug screening while maintaining Patient A on this drug
regimen. The Respondent failed to document a detailed medical history or physical
examination, and failed to document a specific description of Patient A’s pain complaints,
including location, character, severity, exacerbating or relieving factors and associated
symptoms.

Patient B

10. Patient B, a man then in his late-40s, began seeing the Respondent for
medical care in or around 2014. Patient B’s medical conditions included hepatitis C,
chronic neck and back pain secondary to degenerative disc disease, and spondylosis. A

previous physician had reportedly prescribed oxycodone, prednisone, Valium, Skelaxin

and Neurontin.
11. The Respondent initially placed Patient B on Methadone 10 mg twice per
day (“BID”), then discontinued it and placed him on OxyContin 60 mg BID. The
Respondent added oxycodone 30 mg four time per day (“QID”). The Respondent
maintained Patient B on this regimen for many months. The Respondent added Dilaudid
8 mg every four hours. The Respondent increased Patient B’s OxyContin 60 mg from
BID to TID while maintaining him on oxycodone 30 mg QID. The Respondent then
increased Patient B’s OxyContin to 80 mg BID and increased his oxycodone 30 mg from
QID to six times per day. The Respondent also prescribed a benzodiazepine,
clonazepam 1 mg TID.

12. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to
Patient B. The Respondent inappropriately prescribed escalating dosages of opioid
medications, despite Patient B’s co-morbid conditions. The Respondent inappropriately
prescribed high-dosage opioid medications in conjunction with benzodiazepines. The
Respondent, although noting that he ordered urine drug screening, did not maintain the
reports of such screening in his chart. The Respondent failed to document a detailed
medical history or physical examination, and failed to document a specific description of
Patient B’s pain complaints, including location, character, severity, exacerbating or
relieving factors and associated symptoms.

Patient C
13. Patient C, a man then in his early-50s, began seeing the Respondent for

medical care in or around 2016, with complaints of facial pain resulting from a motor
vehicle accident. Patient C’s medical history included oxycodone abuse, alcohol abuse,
multiple psychiatric disorders, extensive facial trauma with prior reconstructive facial
surgeries, and traumatic brain injury. The Respondent prescribed Patient C oxycodone
15 mg QID, MS Contin 15 mg TID, and Amitriptyline 50 mg, and maintained him on these
medications for a few months.

14. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. II § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to
Patient C. The Respondent inappropriately placed Patient C on an initial trial of high
dosage opioid medications. The Respondent failed to order or document ordering urine
drug screening, or document other forms of medication compliance measures. The
Respondent did not document an adequate risk assessment or attempt to employ other
pain management strategies in view of Patient C’s prior alcohol abuse/opioid abuse
issues. In some progress notes, the Respondent failed to explain his rationale for medical
decision-making. The Respondent failed to document a detailed medical history or
physical examination, and failed to document a specific description of Patient C’s pain
complaints, including location, character, severity, exacerbating or relieving factors and
associated symptoms.

Patient D

15. Patient D, then a woman in her late-30s, began seeing the Respondent for
medical care in or around 2012. Patient D’s medical conditions include morbid obesity,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, psychiatric disorders, hypertension, diabetes

mellitus and osteoarthritis. In 2015, Patient D began complaining of increasing pain in
