Serena R, Nolan, M.D.

hs
Date: D4 [|z0Z0__

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 47 Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Serena R. Nolan, M.D. License Number: D25010
Case Number: 7719-0122

Dear Dr.Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant: to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. ("Health Occ.")
§14-403 (2014 Rep!. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D25010, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Ma'yland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the" Act"), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 _eseq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Simender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as fill unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter: of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon

Disciplinary Panel A's ("Panel A") acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the "Board").

I entered into a Consent Order on June 13, 2019 with Disciplinary A of the board
that concluded that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine), (4) (professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent in the
practice. of medicine), and (22) (failed to meet" appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical care).

Pursuant to the terms of the Consent Order, my license was suspended and I was
‘required to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (MPRP) and
comply with all terms and conditions of MPRP. A Copy ofthe Consent Order is attached
and incorporated herein as Attachment 1. I acknowledge that, on June 30, 2020, MPRP
closed my case for cause. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure
 

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Serena R. Nolan, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

that the allegations that 1 violated the June 13, 2019 Consent Order for failing to comply
with the requirements of MPRP will be treated as proven.

~ [have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations. I acknowledge that the
Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however,
upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, { will not be required to comply with the
conditions of the Order as long as 1 do not have ot possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that 1 have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
violating the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. 1 do not wish to contest these
allegations. 1 understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender ] am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

1 understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.

§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender

my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

1 further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board or a disciplinary panel of the Board
grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License,
[understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions in conformity with or in
addition to those set forth in the Consent Order. 1 further understand that if I ever file a

petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as
an individual whose license has been revoked.

Tacknowledge that 1 may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that | have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
CONSENT

I, Serena R. Nolan, M.D., acknowledge that I have had the opportunity to
consult with counsel before signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request
for amendments or modifications to any condition.

T assert that | am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to
Mad. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201

et seq. concerning the pending charges. I waive these rights and have elected to
sign this Consent Order instead.

lL acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the
right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my
behalf, and to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law.
I waive those procedural and substantive protections. 1 acknowledge the legal
authority and the jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings
and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to
contest the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the
Consent Order. I waive all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the
language and meaning of its terms.

fe ) 7% doi Signature on File
Date Serena R. Nolan, M.D.

 
NOTARY

STATE OF MARYLAND .
CITY/COUNTY OF

THEREBY CERTIFY that on this + day oe 2019, before me,
r

a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, sonally appeared Serena R.
Nolan, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order
was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

LINDSAY C. WHITLOCK
NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MARYLAND
My Commission Expires August 1, 2021

 

Notary Public

My commission expires: Q Ol |
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Serena R. Nolan, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license-to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both
the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter‘of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that |

understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender, I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours, \
Signature on File
Serena R. Nolan, M.D.

NOTARY
sTATE OF (VL And

errvcounty or (Ube
yin aff
I HEREBY.CERTIFY that on this | ) Vay of | I LIST , 2020 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Serena R. Nolan, M.D,,

and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was voluntary.

 
  
    
      

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal. J

JESSICA FELDER
NOTARY PUBLIC
BALTIMORE COUNTY
MARYLAND
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES JANUARY 17, 2022

My commission expires: | | {7 / 2 9D:

ACCEPTANCE

| [0 ay at Septeor i,
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 0 day of tv , 2020, I,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Serena R. Nolan, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File
Christine A. Farrelly, ebesile Cicer {)

Maryland Board of Physician
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

SERENA R. NOLAN, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

 

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D25010 Case Numbers: 2218-0049A & 2219-00854
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On April 8, 2019, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (“the Board’) charged SERENA R. NOLAN, M.D., (the “Respondent”),
License Number D25010, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”’), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404(a) provide as

follows:

§ 14-404, Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations
~ Grounds.

(a) Ingeneral. Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) — Is guilty of:

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(4) _ Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent[.]

On October 22, 2018, Panel A charged the Respondent under the following

provisions of the Act:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this Statef.]

On May 8, 2019, a conference with regard to this matter was held before a panel of
the Board’s Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (“DCCR”). As a result of the
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on June 19, 1980. Her license is scheduled to expire on

September 30, 2019. The Respondent holds an inactive license in Michigan.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine.
3. Effective April 5, 2019, the Respondent closed her private office for the practice of
medicine in Parkville, Maryland.

Disciplinary History

4. On or about August 7, 2017, the Board received a complaint from the family of a
patient regarding the Respondent’s excessive prescribing of opioids.
5. The Board referred the case for peer review. The peer reviewers found that the

Respondent failed to meet the standard of quality care when prescribing opioids.
6. On or about November 2, 2018, the Board received a complaint regarding the

Respondent’s current health and ability to practice medicine safely.
 

10.

On December 5, 2018, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402(a),! Panel A directed the
Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an evaluation.
During her evaluation, the Respondent signed a voluntary cessation of practice

agreement.

As a result of the Program’s evaluation, on January 17, 2019, the Respondent
underwent a psychiatric evaluation.

On January 17, 2019, the evaluating psychiatrist (“Evaluator”) issued his report of
the Respondent’s evaluation.

The Evaluator concluded that given the Respondent’s current clinical picture, she is
not presently in a state of health to practice medicine safely and effectively.
Effective January 29, 2019, Panel A summarily suspended the Respondent's license
pursuant its authority under Md. Code. Ann, State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and Md.
Code Regs, 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively required emergency action.

In furtherance of its investigation of the November 2, 2018 complaint, the
Respondent’s medication profile was subpoenaed from a pharmacy for the period
from January 2017 through November 2018.

The medication profile revealed that the Respondent frequently prescribed to herself

a variety of medications, none of which were Controlled Dangerous Substances

1 In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in investigating an allegation
brought against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title,
the Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative
may direct, the licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title
to submit to an appropriate examination.

3
(“CDS”). In addition, one of the Respondent’s employees, a nurse practitioner,
frequently prescribed to the Respondent a variety of medications, including CDS.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing findings of fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4), and failed to meet appropriate standards as
determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical care, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22).

ORDER

 

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel

A, hereby

ORDERED that the Order of Summary Suspension, issued on January 29, 2019, is
terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED pursuant to this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) within FIVE (5) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for
enrollment;

(b) within FIFTEEN (15) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this
Consent Order, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;
 

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP's
referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent's failure to comply with any term or condition of the

Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;

(e) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board
to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order. A
failure to, or withdrawal of consent. is a violation of this Consent Order;

(f) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i-e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including
all of the Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written
information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to
receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental
health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records; and it is further

ORDERED that, if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the Respondent is safe
to return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the
disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of the Respondent's license. The Respondent
may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss her petition for
termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return
to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it
deems appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice, including, and not limited to,
probation, and the terms and conditions of probation and the continuation of the of the
Respondent's enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe
for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be continued
through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and
conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of probation or this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If

5
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause
hearing before the Board or Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or a disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of
probation or this Consent Order, the Board or disciplinary panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or
suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board
or disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of probation and this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director signs the
Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and
conditions of this Consent Order.

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. §§ 4-333(b)(6) (2014 & Supp. 2017).

puis a0 Signature on File

J \
Date Christine A. Farrelly \ C) f
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians
