IN THE MATTER OF

SERENA R. NOLAN, M.D.

Respondent

License Number: D25010

* * * * *

BEFORE THE
MARYLAND STATE
BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

Case Numbers: 2218-0049A & 2219-0085A

* * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

On April 8, 2019, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of

Physicians (“the Board”) charged SERENA R. NOLAN, M.D., (the “Respondent”),

License Number D25010, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code

Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404(a) provide as

follows:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations

— Grounds.

(a)  Ingeneral. Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

Gi) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent{.]

On October 22, 2018, Panel A charged the Respondent under the following

provisions of the Act:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this State{.]

On May 8, 2019, a conference with regard to this matter was held before a panel of

the Board’s Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (““DCCR”). As a result of the

 

 

DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.
FINDINGS OF FACT

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on June 19, 1980. Her license is scheduled to expire on
September 30, 2019. The Respondent holds an inactive license in Michigan.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine.

3. Effective April 5, 2019, the Respondent closed her private office for the practice of
medicine in Parkville, Maryland.
Disciplinary History

4. On or about August 7, 2017, the Board received a complaint from the family of a
patient regarding the Respondent’s excessive prescribing of opioids.

5. The Board referred the case for peer review. The peer reviewers found that the
Respondent failed to meet the standard of quality care when prescribing opioids.

6. On or about November 2, 2018, the Board received a complaint regarding the

Respondent’s current health and ability to practice medicine safely.
 

10.

11.

12.

14.

On December 5, 2018, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402(a),! Panel A directed the
Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an evaluation.
During her evaluation, the Respondent signed a voluntary cessation of practice
agreement.

As a result of the Program’s evaluation, on January 17, 2019, the Respondent
underwent a psychiatric evaluation.

On January 17, 2019, the evaluating psychiatrist (“Evaluator”) issued his report of
the Respondent’s evaluation.

The Evaluator concluded that given the Respondent’s current clinical picture, she is
not presently in a state of health to practice medicine safely and effectively.
Effective January 29, 2019, Panel A summarily suspended the Respondent’s license
pursuant its authority under Md. Code. Ann, State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and Md.
Code Regs, 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively required emergency action.

In furtherance of its investigation of the November 2, 2018 complaint, the
Respondent’s medication profile was subpoenaed from a pharmacy for the period
from January 2017 through November 2018.

The medication profile revealed that the Respondent frequently prescribed to herself

a variety of medications, none of which were Controlled Dangerous Substances

1 In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in investigating an allegation
brought against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title,
the Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative
may direct, the licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title
to submit to an appropriate examination.
 

(“CDS”). In addition, one of the Respondent’s employees, a nurse practitioner,
frequently prescribed to the Respondent a variety of medications, including CDS.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing findings of fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4), and failed to meet appropriate standards as
determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical care, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22).

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel

A, hereby

ORDERED that the Order of Summary Suspension, issued on January 29, 2019, is
terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED pursuant to this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) within FIVE (5) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for
enrollment;

(b) within FIFTEEN (15) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this
Consent Order, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;
(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP's
referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent's failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;

(e) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board
to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order. A
failure to, or withdrawal of consent. is a violation of this Consent Order;

(f) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including
all of the Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written
information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to
receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental
health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records; and it is further

ORDERED that, if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the Respondent is safe
to return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the
disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of the Respondent's license. The Respondent
may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss her petition for
termination. Ifthe disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return
to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it
deems appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice, including, and not limited to,
probation, and the terms and conditions of probation and the continuation of the of the
Respondent's enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe
for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be continued
through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and
conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of probation or this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If

5
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause
hearing before the Board or Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or a disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of
probation or this Consent Order, the Board or disciplinary panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or
suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board
or disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of probation and this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director signs the
Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and
conditions of this Consent Order.

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. §§ 4—333(b)(6) (2014 & Supp. 2017).

cha [e014 Signature on File

Date Christine A. Farrelly \ () U

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
CONSENT

I, Serena R. Nolan, M.D., acknowledge that I have had the opportunity to
consult with counsel before signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request
for amendments or modifications to any condition.

L assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to
Mad. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201
et seg. concerning the pending charges. I waive these rights and have elected to
sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the
right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my
behalf, and to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law.
I waive those procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal
authority and the jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings
and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to
contest the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the
Consent Order. I waive all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the
language and meaning of its terms.

fe ) 7% Jor Signature on File
Date Serena R. Nolan, M.D.

 
NOTARY

STATE OF MARYLAND .
CITY/COUNTY OF

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 4+ day of June 2019, before me,
Yr

a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, p¢grsonally appeared Serena R.
Nolan, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order
was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

LINDSAY C. WHITLOCK
NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MARYLAND
My Commission Expires August 1, 2021

    

Notary Public

My commission expires: Q Ol \
