Bernard A. Cohen

September 13, 2023

Date:
——
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Bernard A Cohen, M.D.
License Number: D26518
Case Number: 7723-0074

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D26518, effective
immediately. I understand that upon the surrender of my license, I may not practice
medicine, with or without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 er seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I] understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

[ understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board originally opened an investigation based’ on a
Mandated 10-Day Report from my place of employment reporting my voluntary
resignation of my medical staff membership and clinical privileges while under
investigation. My license to practice medicine was summarily suspended on May 11, 2022
and I was subsequently charged with being professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent. As a resolution to the charges, I entered into a Consent Order with Panel B
on July 21, 2022 that concluded, as a matter of law, that I violated the disciplinary ground
as alleged, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4). The Consent Order terminated the summary
suspension, suspended my license, and required that I undergo a comprehensive evaluation
by the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program and/or its agents to determine my
fitness to practice medicine safely.
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Bernard A. Cohen, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I acknowledge that the Board issued an Order on Petition to Terminate Suspension
on April 19, 2023 that continued the suspension of my medical license.

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland because I have retired from the practice of medicine.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender in lieu of continuing to comply with the
suspension of my license.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes
a disciplinary action by Panel B.

| affirm that I have already provided access to and copies of patient medical records
to my patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also
agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of
Controlled Substances Administration. :

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. | understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this
Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision
knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

Berriard A. Cohen, M.D.
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Bernard A.Cohen, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY
STATE OF mma
CITY/COUNTY OF 794 C#rmore

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Diving of Se ny tomb 5093 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Bernard A. Cohen, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

OLGAVKING |
|

Notary Public Of. / hf tha:

Baltimore City -
Maryland Notary Public

My Commission Expires Feb. 06, 2027 |

“My commission expires:

ACCEPTANCE

th
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this ) 3 day of SeplewbeBoo3, 1, Christine A.

Farrelly, accept Bernard A. Cohen, M.D.’s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of his license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

° °
Signature On File
Christine A. Farrélly Beh ive Directgr
Maryland Board of Phystevans
