IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

BERNARD COHEN, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D26518 * Case Number: 2222-0064B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On May 18, 2022, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged BERNARD COHEN, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D26518, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 e¢ seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.).

Disciplinary Panel B charged the Respondent with violating the following
provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404:

(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent[.]

On June 22, 2022, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B finds the following:
Background/Licensing Information
1. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in Maryland on
June 17, 1981, under License Number D26518. The Respondent has retained
continuous licensure in Maryland since that time. The Respondent’s license expires on

September 30, 2022, subject to renewal.
2. The Respondent is board-certified in pediatric medicine and dermatology.

3. At all relevant times, the Respondent practiced at a health care facility (the “Facility”)

in Maryland.

The Complaint
4. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing a Mandated
10-Day Report (the “Report’”’) from the Facility, received by the Board on September 21,
2021. The Report stated that effective September 3, 2021, the Respondent “voluntarily
resigned his medical staff membership and clinical privileges at [the Facility] while under
investigation for concerns raised that he continued to engage in clinical practice while on

a medical leave of absence.”

Board Investigation
5. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained the Respondent’s quality assurance
file from the Facility, interviewed several staff members from the Facility, and referred the

Respondent for an evaluation.
The Respondent’s quality assurance file

6. The Respondent’s quality assurance file notes that on or about March 20, 2020, the
Facility informed the Respondent that it had received several individual reports about him
involving forgetfulness and possible practice irregularities. As a result of these concerns,
the Facility referred the Respondent for a fitness-for-duty evaluation. In conjunction with
this referral, the Respondent agreed to take a medical leave of absence. On March 23,
2020, the Respondent submitted to the evaluation, after which the evaluator issued a report

of his findings.

7. In or around July 2021, the Facility received information that the Respondent was
continuing to practice medicine despite his medical leave of absence. In a letter dated July
26, 2021, the Facility informed the Respondent that he was continuing to provide patient
care that included providing medical advice to patients and consultation services to
community physicians at other health care facilities, including recommendations’ for
medical and pharmacologic management of inpatients. The Facility further instructed the

Respondent to cease and desist from these actions.

8. In a letter dated September 3, 2021, the Respondent informed the Facility that he

was resigning his privileges.

9. On or about November 4, 2021, the Facility submitted the evaluation report to the

Board. As a result, the Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent.

Respondent’s written response
10. After receiving this information, the Board requested that the Respondent address
the circumstances of his resignation from the Facility in a written response. By letter dated
November 9, 2021, the Respondent acknowledged resigning from the Facility, before
which he had been on a leave of absence. The Respondent stated that at the time of his
resignation, he was the subject of a Facility inquiry into whether he was engaging in
activities that were “not allowed during ... [his]... leave of absence.” The Respondent
stated that during his leave of absence, he continued to lecture on pediatric dermatology
issues to residents, students, and faculty for teaching purposes at various health care
facilities but was under the impression that his input was informal and not in the nature of

an official consultation.

Board interviews

ll. The Board interviewed several former and recent professional colleagues of the
Respondent who made observations about the Respondent’s clinical actions and behaviors
while on staff at the Facility. Those colleagues variously described instances where the
Respondent: expressed confusion about which patient he was seeing; repeated himself;
performed procedures without appropriate indication; misused or employed inappropriate
treatment modalities; treated patients without an established physician-patient relationship
or without obtaining appropriate informed consent; and made possible billing
errors. Senior staff members also stated that they received reports from trainees and staff

involving the Respondent’s clinical judgment with respect to patient care.

Referral for evaluation and findings
12. As part of the Board’s investigation, the Board, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402(a),
referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an independent
evaluation to determine his present competency to practice medicine. On March 22, 2022,
at the direction of the Program, the Respondent submitted to an independent
evaluation. The evaluator issued a report that the Respondent’s medical condition “almost

certainly precludes his ability to independently practice medicine.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the Findings of Fact, Panel B of the Board concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent: Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4).

ORDER

It is, thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension, issued on May 11, 2022, and
affirmed, on May 26, 2022, is terminated as moot based upon the suspension ordered under
this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED.' During the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the following
conditions of suspension:

(1) During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of
medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

‘Tf the Respondent’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and
any conditions will be tolled.
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

(2) The Respondent shall undergo a comprehensive evaluation by the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (MPRP) and/or its agents to determine
the Respondent’s fitness to practice medicine safely. The following conditions
apply:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to make
arrangements for the evaluation;

(b) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals and directives for the evaluation and shall fully
participate and comply with the evaluation as directed by MPRP and its
agents;

(c) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
his release/consent;

(d) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental heaith
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent
shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;

(f) the evaluation shall not be performed by Dr. B, Dr. H, or Dr. G,? who
have already performed evaluations of the Respondent; and

(3) After the evaluation by MPRP and/or its agents is complete, the evaluation shall
be reviewed by Panel B. The parties may be required to appear before Panel B to
discuss whether the Respondent is fit to practice medicine and, if so, if probationary
conditions are necessary. If Panel B determines that it is safe for the Respondent to

? The parties know who these three individuals are. The individuals involved in the
evaluation ordered under this Consent Order, however, may, but are not required to, review
the evaluations performed by these three individuals.
return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an
order of Panel B and Panel B may impose any terms and conditions it deems
appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice, including, but not limited to, the
Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. Ifthe Panel B determines that it is not safe for
the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, Panel B may issue any order
appropriate to the circumstances in this matter; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before
a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed
by this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on
the Respondent, and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

01/21/2022 Signature On File
_ Christine A. Fare (

Maryland State Board of Physicians
CONSENT

I, Bernard Cohen, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

l assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

IS] 209.2- Signature On File

‘Respondent
NOTARY

STATE OF MARYA

crrvicounty or BAK WHORE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on __ this Ioth day of
Sd

State and City/County, did personally appear Bernard Cohen, M.D. and made oath in due

, 2022, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and seal.

tone
yen 1,
oy CR

Se lentes & v , .
Sot Beas Sy % Notaiff Public
,

My commission expires: 10-03. Be

 

sree”
