John Anthony Vitarello, Jr., M.D.

Date: Ppm | Z24, Z02

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re; Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
John Anthony Vitarello, Jr, M.D. License Number: D27544
Case Numbers: 2220-0243A & 2221-0089A

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D27544, effective immediately, I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Oce.
§§ 14-101 ev seg. and other applicable Jaws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the permanent surrender of my license
means that | am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice, and that
Panel A summarily suspended my license on December 29, 2020, and issued disciplinary
charges against me on January 6, 2021, and amended charges against me on March 5, 2021,
under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) (is guilty of immoral and unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine); Health Occ. § 1-212; and the Board’s sexual
misconduct regulations, COMAR 10.32.17 ef seq. Specifically, Panel A alleged that I
engaged in unprofessional conduct with multiple female office staff and patients. [ have
decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland!

 

' Upon Panel A’s acceptance of this permanent Letter of Surrender, | acknowledge that the Order for
Summary Suspension issued on December 29, 2020, and reaffirmed on January 14, 2021, is terminated as
moot,
 

 

Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: John Anthony Vitarello, Jr., M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges and because |
wish to retire from the practice of medicine.

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I] acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.

T understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

1 understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, | also
understand that in the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that | will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
Thave no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any
application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make elear that | have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully, I acknowledge that { understand and comprehend the language, meaning

and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: John Anthony Vitarello, Jr., M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Very truly yours,

Signature on File
Jghn Anthony Vitarello, Jr., M.D.

NOTARY

sTATE or N\

CITY/COUNTY OF}, ecloncie

THEREBY CERTIFY that on this DMOday of FOC , 2021 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared John Anthony Vitarello,
Jr., M.D. and declared and affirmed under the penaltics of perjury that the signing of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal. Peal aes Veal le
Frederick County

My Commission Expires
August 31, 2024

 

Notary Public
My commission expires:
@)21 24
ACCEPTANCE

=n ee sar Apa 5s
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this day of , 2021, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC PERMANENT SURRENDER of John Anthony
Vitarello, Jr., M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

ive Directo’
ns

 

  
  
 

Christine A. Farrefly, Ex:
Maryland Board of Physi

 
