IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

JOHN VITARELLO JR., M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS

License Number: D27544 * Case Number: 2220-0243 A

* * * * * * * * * x * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

 

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of JOHN VITARELLO JR,
M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number D27544, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland. Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), concluding that the public health,

safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.
INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:!

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the asserted facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
I. BACKGROUND

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
February 19, 1982, under License Number D27544. The Respondent has retained
continuous licensure in Maryland since that time. The Respondent’s license is scheduled
to expire on September 30, 2021.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in Internal Medicine with a sub-specialty
certification in Cardiovascular Disease.

3. The Respondent has hospital privileges at one Maryland hospital system. ?

4, At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was the co-founder and chief
executive officer at a cardiovascular medical practice (the “Practice’”) with four office
locations in Frederick, Maryland and Urbana, Maryland.

Il. THE COMPLAINT

5. On or about April 9, 2020, the Board received a complaint (the “Complaint”)
from an employee at the Practice (“Individual A”)? The Complaint alleged that the
Respondent sexually assaulted her in February 2019 when the Respondent saw her as a

patient.

* To maintain confidentiality, the names of individuals and health care facilities will not be identified in this
document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of the individuals and health care facilities referenced
herein by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

+ The Complaint contained exhibits including declarations from a former patient, current Practice employee
and former Practice employee. The declaration from the former patient, identified infra as Individual B,
detailed additional instances where the Respondent engaged in sexual misconduct. The declarations from

the Practice employees, identified infra as Individuals D and E, provided additional details surrounding the
Complaint.
if she “liked white boys” and told her to “put on something nice
tonight.”

c. This incident caused her to leave work early and immediately

terminate her employment at the Practice.
21. Individual H’s personnel file documents that she reported the Respondent’s
sexual harassment to senior personnel at the Practice, including the Practice Administrator,

in February 2016.

Individual I

22, On October 20, 2020, Board investigators interviewed a front desk scheduler
and medical assistant to the Respondent who worked at the Practice from 2011 until 2014

(“Individual I’’). In the under-oath interview, Individual | stated:

a. A few days into her employment, the Respondent learned that she
received flowers at the Practice and he called her back into his office,
shut the door, complimented her and asked if she “wanted a side
piece.” He explained that he was married, had a girlfriend and had a

mistress.

b. In another encounter with the Respondent, the Respondent asked her
again if she wanted a “side piece” and asked her to perform oral sex
on him.

c. She never reported the Respondent because she feared retaliation.

Individual J

23. OnAugust 19, 2020, Board investigators interviewed a front office employee
who worked at the Practice from 2005 until 2010 (“Individual J”). In the under-oath

interview, Individual J stated:
a. Shortly after she began her employment at the Practice, the
Respondent asked her where she lived and told her several times that
he was going to come by her house.!*

b. In 2007, the Respondent learned that she moved in with her parents,
whom the Respondent knew. The Respondent then went to her
parents’ house to see her but she was not home. Near the time she left
the Practice, the Respondent again told her that he was going to come
to her house and that if she told anyone about his visit, she would be
fired.

c. At company dinners, the Respondent encouraged drinking and offered
rides home to certain female employees. She also observed the
Respondent put his hand between female employees’ thighs while he
sat down and visited with them at their table. The Respondent
attempted to touch her without her consent or invitation but she was
able to maneuver her body to avoid him and he moved on.

d. As aresult, she avoided him and would only enter his office to conduct
work-related business when the Respondent was treating patients.

e. She never reported the Respondent because she was afraid that she
would not be believed and she would lose her job.

Individual K

24. On May 28, 2020, Board investigators interviewed an employee who worked
in the billing department at the Practice from approximately 2002 until 2012 (“Individual

K”). In the under-oath interview, Individual K stated:

a. In 2007 or 2008, she was in the Respondent’s office with the
Respondent conducting work-related business with the door closed,
when he asked whether she performed oral sex and enjoyed it. She felt
intimidated during the conversation and the Respondent told her to
keep their conversation a secret.

'' The Respondent subsequently told Individual J that he biked past her house and was going to stop by but
he did not think she was home since he didn’t see her car.
b. She immediately told another employee, identified infra as Individual
L. She did not report the incident to senior personnel because it only
happened once.

Individual L

25. On August 25, 2020, Board investigators interviewed an administrative
employee who worked at the Practice from 2003 until 2020 (“Individual L”). In an under-

oath interview, Individual L stated:

a. She was present when the Respondent learned that Individual A was
going to file a sexual harassment claim against him and described the
incident as “very disturbing.” She saw Individual A in a panic asking
for Individual D and, shortly thereafter, she observed the Respondent
“infuriated” and looking around the office for Individual A. She later
found Individual A crouched down near a filing cabinet in her office,
crying and hyperventilating.

b. “T couldn’t believe how scared [Individual A] was and how much of
a fury [the Respondent] was like looking for her.”

c. She helped Individual A safely leave the office.

d. She recalled Individual K telling her that the Respondent had asked
her if she liked oral sex.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, pursuant

to State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.) and. COMAR

10.32.02.08B(7).
ORDER

Based upon the Investigative Findings and Conclusions of Law, it is thus, by Panel

A.of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. § 10-
226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is thus further

ORDERED that, during the summary suspension, the Respondent shall not
practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a post-
deprivation hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, January 13,
2021, at 11:15 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;

and it is further
ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel A immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it

is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a public document. See

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

shat, Signature on File

Date Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
6. Individual A stated that, among other things, when she started working as a
new employee for the Practice, the Respondent pressured her to let him treat her heart
condition and examine her, during which he requested that she expose her breasts, after
which he cupped her left breast, felt her breast with his thumb, commented regarding her
breast implants and blew her a kiss upon leaving the room.

UI. BOARD INVESTIGATION

7. Board investigators conducted an investigation of the Respondent’s conduct
at the Practice.‘

8. As part of its investigation, Board investigators conducted under-oath
interviews of fourteen current and former Practice employees and a former patient. In
addition, records including personnel records, medical records, and law enforcement
records were subpoenaed. Board investigators also notified the Respondent of the
investigation and conducted an under-oath interview of the Respondent.

9. The investigation concluded that for over a decade, the Respondent engaged
in a pattern of unprofessional conduct that included, but was not limited to, sexual
harassment, sexual propositioning and sexual assault of at least nine female employees and

one patient. The Respondent’s sexual misconduct spanned a significant amount of time, in

* Shortly after the investigation was initiated, on May 11, 2020 and May 15, 2020, the Board received
additional complaints from two other former practice employees, identified infra as Individual C and
Individual D, who alleged additional instances where the Respondent engaged in sexual misconduct.
large part due to the control and influence the Respondent had over Practice operations and
senior-level personnel at the Practice.>

10. The investigation further determined that the Respondent routinely engaged
in a pattern of misconduct where he offered female subordinates monetary, employment
and/or legal assistance; invited them to meet with him privately to discuss his assistance;
and arranged to meet in a private place where he provided alcohol, encouraged them to
drink the alcohol and made aggressive sexual advances toward them.

11. The investigation also found that the Respondent regularly and publicly
called the female Practice employees nicknames® instead of their names, discussed and
joked about sex, commented on their physical appearance including their breasts and
hugged and engaged in gratuitous touching of female employees.’ Practice employees also
reported that it was well known among employees that the Respondent pursued sexual
relationships with female employees.

12. The investigation of the Respondent’s sexual misconduct is set forth in

pertinent part below.

> The senior-level personnel included a female practice manager, employed from March 1999-April 2016
and involved in human resources matters, who employees believed and, at times, observed was in a sexual
relationship with the Respondent (the “Practice Manager”).

® The nicknames the Respondent used included but were not limited to, “babe,” “baby,” “honey,” “Greek
goddess” and “black Snow White.”

7 The Respondent reportedly touched female employees in areas including, but not limited to, their
shoulders, waist, lower back, inner thighs and breasts.
Individual A

13. On May 7, 2020, Board investigators interviewed Individual A, an employee
at the Practice since February 11, 2019. In the under-oath interview, Individual A stated:

a. Throughout her employment, the Respondent regularly engaged in
flirtatious behavior and rarely addressed her by name but instead
referred to her as “baby,” “ babe,” “honey” and “sweetheart.”

b. The Respondent pressured her to become a patient after he learned of
her chronic heart condition. During the examination, the Respondent
was alone in the room with her when he asked her to raise her bra over
her breasts, stared at her breasts for an extended amount of time,
cupped and rubbed her left breast with his hand, and complimented
her regarding her breast implants. Upon leaving the examination
room, the Respondent blew her a kiss.

c, In March 2019, the Respondent asked her to stay after work to discuss
a work-related matter; however, the Respondent showed up alone
with wine and stated that the purpose of the meeting was not about
work but because he wanted to get to know her. The Respondent sat
very close to her, discussed her physical appearance and romantic
relationships, and initiated a hug when she stated that she needed to
leave. At the conclusion of the encounter, the Respondent explained
to her that she should keep their meeting a secret. Individual A
declined all of the Respondent’s subsequent requests to meet with him
outside of work.

d. In or around April 2019, the Respondent gave her money to pay for
movers and offered school tuition assistance. He told her to keep his
financial assistance secret.

e. In or around January 2020, she discussed the exam room incident with
a Practice employee and indicated that she was considering talking
with an attorney. Shortly thereafter, the Respondent called Individual
A, the Respondent stated “there’s going to be hell to pay” and then
came looking for her in the office in a manner that made her “fearful
Individual B

for her life.”® She hid from the Respondent behind a filing cabinet
until other employees helped her leave the Practice safely.

Individual A had no further contact with the Respondent since that
incident and, on February 20, 2020, the Practice informed her that her
employment was suspended.’

14. On May 11, 2020, Board investigators interviewed a former patient of the

Respondent who was treated in 2009 (“Individual B”). In the under-oath interview,

Individual B stated:

The Respondent made sexual comments and advances to her during a
post-operative appointment that were extremely upsetting to her.

During the appointment, the Respondent had her leave the
examination room to meet with him in his office. Upon entering the
office, the Respondent closed and locked the door behind them,
inquired about her relationship status, commented about her breasts
and physical appearance, stated that he would be at her house later
that afternoon to start “sexual therapy” and further stated that she
should “be there and be ready.” As she got up to leave, he hugged
and tried to kiss her.

5 The Respondent openly discussed with many Practice employees, including Individual A, that he had a
gun in his office and showed them the gun.

° Individual A was told that her employment at the Practice was suspended based on allegations that she
accessed patient medical records inappropriately.
Individual C

15.

On May 21, 2020, Board investigators interviewed a physician liaison at a

healthcare entity that had business dealings with the Practice (“Individual C”). In the under-

oath interview, Individual C stated: -

Individual D

16.

In October 2017, she first met the Respondent at a business
networking event. In subsequent meetings between October and
December 2017, the Respondent met with her privately and after
hours at the Practice as well as on drives in his car where he discussed
employment opportunities for her at the Practice, provided and

encouraged her to drink alcohol and made sexual advances towards
her.

In November 2017, the Respondent saw her as a patient and during
her appointment, kissed her and groped her left breast when the nurse
left the examination room.

In December 2017, she told the Respondent that she was not interested
in a romantic relationship with him and, thereafter, he no longer
discussed business opportunities at the Practice with her.

On May 8, 2020, Board investigators interviewed a human resources

employee at the Practice from March of 2018 until February of 2020 (“Individual D”). In

the under-oath interview, Individual D stated:

Shortly after she began working at the Practice, and during the course
of her employment, the Respondent made comments to her regarding
her physical appearance, invited her to have wine with him so they
could “get to know each other better and unwind,” initiated
conversations about sex and disclosed his sexual desires with her.

She told the Respondent that his behavior was inappropriate and made
her feel uncomfortable but the Respondent was “relentless.”
c. On multiple occasions, she got up and left situations where the
Respondent was inappropriate. The Respondent would then follow
her, ask for a hug and touch her on her waist and on one occasion, her
breast.

d. During her tenure as a human resources employee, Practice
employees, including Individual A and Individual F, identified infra,
reported to her that the Respondent engaged in sexual misconduct.
She reported the Respondent’s sexual misconduct to senior-level staff
at the Practice on multiple occasions and, in or around January 2020,
she was instructed by the Practice’s legal counsel not to discuss the
matters with anyone.

e. On or around February 3, 2020, she took medical leave as the result
of medical conditions caused by the Respondent’s behavior and,
shortly thereafter, was terminated from the Practice.!°

Individual E

17. On May 19, 2020, Board investigators interviewed a current Practice
employee who held multiple positions at the Practice since April 2005 (“Individual E”). In

the under-oath interview, Individual E stated:

a. Shortly after her employment in 2005, she became an office manager
from 2007-2017 and then in 2017, was promoted to a senior level
employee at the Practice where she was responsible for Practice
operations and patient complaints.!! She was aware of numerous

*° Individual D was told that her employment at the Practice was terminated because she returned her
medical paperwork late.

" Individual E explained that the Respondent terminated the Practice Administrator after the Respondent
learned that he was not immediately notified of Individual F’s sexual harassment allegations against him,
discussed infra, and that the Respondent further indicated that he would hire a man to handle the Practice’s
human relations matters.
Individual F

18.

employee complaints that were made against the Respondent
regarding his sexual behavior. '?

She witnessed the Respondent’s sexual behavior directed toward
Individual D.

In February 2020, the Practice’s legal counsel requested that she
document information regarding sexual harassment at the Practice,
including the names of individuals who had reported the Respondent.
She complied and shortly thereafter the Practice suspended her
employment.!?

On June 16, 2020, Board investigators interviewed an administrative

employee at the Practice from 2010 until 2018 (“Individual F’”). In the under-oath

interview, Individual F stated:

The Respondent saw her once as a patient after he insisted that he treat
her for migraines. When conducting his examination, the Respondent
stared at her breasts.

In 2016, she discussed a legal matter with the Respondent, who stated
that he could assist her. The Respondent offered to meet her to further
discuss the matter, took her to a secluded area in a park, grabbed her
arms and repeatedly tried to kiss her. After she declined the
Respondent’s sexual advances, the Respondent stopped offering
assistance with her legal matter.

After she reported the incident to other Practice employees, including
Individual D and Individual E, the Respondent never spoke to her
again. She was also asked to leave the Practice, offered a severance
package and asked to sign a non-disclosure agreement.

? Individual E discussed the names and allegations that were reported to her, including those reported by
Individuals A, C, D and F. Individual E was also aware of Individual B’s allegations and that the Practice
instituted a chaperone policy specifically for the Respondent shortly thereafter.

9 Individual E was told that her employment at the Practice was suspended based on allegations that she
mishandled medical records.
Individual G

19. On June 18, 2020, Board investigators interviewed a health care employee at

the Practice from 2004-2014 (“Individual G”). In the under-oath interview, Individual G

stated:
a,
b.
c
d.
Individual H

During the course of her employment the Respondent’s sexual
advances toward her escalated, making conversations about patient
care uncomfortable and caused her to avoid being alone with him “at
all costs.”

The Respondent was aware that she was a single parent and regularly
invited her to meet him at a local hotel and offered her “favors” in
return for sexual contact such as oral sex.

She was aware that the Respondent engaged in sexual relationships
with office staff and on multiple occasions she observed the

Respondent engaging in sexual conduct with the Practice
Administrator.

When she reported the Respondent’s sexual misconduct to the
Practice Administrator she was told, “keep your mouth shut and stay
away from him.”

20. On May 12, 2020, Board investigators interviewed the Respondent’s medical

assistant, who worked for him from November 22, 2015 until January 28, 2016

(“Individual H”). In the under-oath interview, Individual H stated:

a.

In January 2016, the Respondent approved her request for an advance
on her paycheck so she could get her car repaired.

Shortly thereafter, the Respondent repeatedly asked to take her out for
a drink and to keep it a secret; told her to cancel her ride home because
he would take her home; and then called her into his office, inquired
