IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
EDITH MIHAESCU, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D29054 * Case Number: 2218-0083B
.* * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of EDITH MIHAESCU, M.D., (the
“Respondent’), License Number D29054, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Disciplinary Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov't Il (“State Gov't’) § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.) and Md. Code
Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a) concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively
requires emergency action.

On January 24, 2018, Disciplinary Panel B held a pre-deprivation hearing for the
Respondent to show cause why the Order for Summary Suspension of License to
Practice Medicine should not be issued.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS'
Based on information received by, and made known to Disciplinary Panel B, and

the investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available

‘The statements of the Respondent's conduct herein are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of Disciplinary Panel B’s intent to summarily suspend her license. They are not intended as, and do not
necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be
offered against the Respondent in connection with this matter.
to Disciplinary Panel B, including the instances described below, Disciplinary Panel B has

reason to believe the following facts are true.

1.

At all times relevant, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on March 1, 1983. Her license is scheduled to expire on
September 30, 2019.

At all times relevant, the Respondent has practiced as a psychiatrist ata private
office in Westminster, Maryland.

On or about October 30, 2017, the Board received a complaint from a professional
counselor. The complainant expressed concern regarding the Respondent's
availability and prescribing practices.

Thereafter, the Board initiated an investigation. In furtherance of the Board’s
investigation, on or about December 19, 2017, Board staff conducted an
unannounced site visit to the Respondent's office in Westminster. Board staff
delivered a copy of the Complaint, a request for a response, and subpoenas for
records.

At the Respondent's office, Board staff notified the Respondent of the reason for
the visit. Although the Respondent had been seeing patients, she appeared
disheveled, and repeatedly stated, “I do not care” about the allegations raised and
stated she “does not care about the Board.”

The Respondent's office was in a state of extreme disorganization, with large
mounds of papers, other clutter, and a dog cage holding a dog in the waiting area.

The other rooms of the office, including the room in which the Respondent sees
10.

11.

patients, were filled with piles of paper, trash, food, medication samples, and
patient charts, to the point where Board staff was unable to open one of the office
doors.

Board staff also obtained pharmacy records, which documented that the
Respondent was prescribing controlled dangerous substances to patients.

On or about December 21, 2017, Board staff made a second unannounced visit to
the Respondent's office in Westminster. The purpose of the visit was to deliver
subpoenas for individual patient records, and a subpoena to appear for an
interview at the Board’s office on December 28, 2017 at 1:00 p.m.

The office was dark and no one answered the door initially on this date. Board staff
inquired at a medical office nearby, “Suite E”, and the receptionist there informed
Board staff that the Respondent's patients often come into Suite E looking for the
Respondent.

Shortly thereafter, the Respondent arrived and let Board staff into the office. The
office remained in a state of total disarray, with piles of clutter, food, and papers
dominating much of the space. Used dog toys and dog hair were observed
covering the couch in the office where the Respondent sees patients.

On December 28, 2017, the Respondent failed to appear for the interview to which
she had been subpoenaed. The Respondent failed to offer any explanation for her

absence.
CONCLUSION OF LAW
Based on the foregoing investigative findings, Panel B concludes that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this case, pursuant to
State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2), and Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).
ORDER
Based on the foregoing investigative findings and conclusions of law, it is,
by a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:
ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by State Gov't § 10-
226(c)(2), the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland be and
is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and be it further
ORDERED that the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may
request within ten (10) calendar days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held
within thirty (30) calendar days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the
Office of Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt
Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further
ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol. &
2017 Supp.); and be it further
ORDERED that this is a Final Order of the Board and, as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg.

 
      
 

Vi Anvary 2 20 1g
Date Christine A. Farrelly,\Executive Dire
Maryland State Board af Physician
