IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JOHN S. DALTON, II, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D30542 * Case Number: 2016-0489B

* * * * * * * * x * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

On September 2, 2016, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged John S. Dalton, Il, M.D., with unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine. See Maryland Code Annotated, Health Occupations § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). The charges
alleged that Dr. Dalton acted unprofessionally in two separate instances.

On March 6, 2017, after a two-day evidentiary hearing before an Administrative Law
Judge (“ALJ”) at the Office of Administrative Hearings, the ALJ issued a proposed decision
concluding that Dr. Dalton was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The
ALJ recommended suspending Dr. Dalton’s medical license for one year, referring him to the
Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) to assess whether any additional
rehabilitative or remedial measures are necessary to address Dr. Dalton’s conduct, requiring him
to undergo a neurocognitive evaluation, and having him reappear before a Panel of the Board to
determine whether any further steps are necessary.

Dr. Dalton filed exceptions, and the State filed a response. On June 14, 2017,

Disciplinary Panel A of the Board (the “Panel”) held a hearing on Dr. Dalton’s exceptions.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Unless stated otherwise, the Panel adopts the ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact §§ 1-24
and Discussion (pages 7-19), which are incorporated by reference into the body of this document
as if set forth in full. See attached ALJ Proposed Decision, Exhibit 1. The factual findings were
proven by the preponderance of the evidence.

Dr. Dalton was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland in 1984, and has
continuously renewed his license. He is board-certified in internal medicine and nephrology. At
all relevant times to this matter, he maintained a medical office in Catonsville, Maryland, where
the incidents occurred.

The charges against Dr. Dalton concerned two separate incidents. The first incident
concerns S.W., a personal care assistant, who was working for Company A, a company that
provides personal aides to mentally disabled adults. On December 5, 2015, S.W. accompanied
Patient A to visit Dr. Dalton, because Patient A was suffering from cold-like symptoms. S.W.,
who is a Muslim, wore a burga to the visit.!

After conducting a history and physical examination of Patient A, Dr. Dalton asked S.W.
if she had heard about the December 2, 2015, shooting attack in San Bernardino, California,
where a married couple, who were radical followers of Islam, killed fourteen people and
wounded twenty-two. S.W. said that she had not heard of the attack. Dr. Dalton repeatedly
asked her if she denounced the attack or supported the attackers’ actions. S.W. expressed that
the attacks were against the tenets of Islam. Dr. Dalton, nonetheless, lectured her that murder is
illegal in the United States. He then criticized her for wearing her burqa in the office. He told

S.W. that the attackers were “doing jihad in the name of Allah,” and became extremely agitated

"A burqa is a head-to-toe outer garment worn by women in some Islamic traditions.

2
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408(a), Dr. Dalton has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The date on the
cover letter accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed.
Any petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure
Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of
Procedure.

If Dr. Dalton files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:

David Finkler

Assistant Attorney General

Department of Health and Mental Hygiene
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
EXHIBIT 1
MARYLAND STATE _ * BEFORE LATONYA B. DARGAN,

BOARD OF PHYSICIANS * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE

Vv.

* OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE

JOHN S. DALTON, I, M_D., / * OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

RESPONDENT, * OAH Case No.: DHMH-MBP-71-16-32064
LICENSE NO.: D30542 * MBP Case No.: 2016-0489B

* * * * * * '* * * * * *

PROPOSED DECISION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES:
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
DISCUSSION
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW.
- PROPOSED DISPOSITION '

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

On September 2, 2016, Disciplinary Panel B (Panel B) of the Maryland State Board of

Physicians (Board) issued charges against John S. Dalton, Il, M-D:, (Respondent) under the ‘

Maryland Medical Practice Act (the Act), Maryland Code Annotated, Health Occupations

Article, §§ 14-101 through 14-507, and 14-601 through 14-607 (2014 & Supp. 2016).

Specifically, the Respondent was charged with being guilty of unprofessional conduct in the

practice of medicine. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ., § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) (Supp. 2016). Panel B

forwarded the charges to the Office of the Attorney General for prosecution and delegated the

matter to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH) for the issuance of a proposed decision.

COMAR 10.32.02.03E(8), 10.32.02.04B(1).
 

[held a hearing on December 12 and 13, 2016 at OAH headquarters in Hunt Valley,
‘Maryland. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405(a) (2014); COMAR 10.32.02.04. Robert J.
Gilbert, Deputy Counsel, Office of the Attomey General, Health Occupations Prosecution and
Litigation Division, represented the State of Maryland (State). Thomas Schetelich, Esquire,
represented the Respondent, who ‘was present.

’ The contested case provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, the Rules for
Hearings before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of Procedure of the OAH govern this .
case. Md, Code Ann., State Gov't 29 10-201 through 10-226 (2014 & Supp. 2016); COMAR

10. 32. 02; COMAR 28.02.01.
ISSUES
1.: Is the Respondent guilty of engaging in unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of § 14-404(a)(3) of the Act; and,
2. Iso, what is the appropriate. sanction?

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

 

A complete exhibit list is attached as an appendix.
Testimony
The State presented the following witnesses: S.w.; SB. —_—.

Molly Dicken, Compliance Analyst, Maryland Board of Physicians.

1 The complainant witnesses are identified by their initials to preserve confidentiality.
? SB. is a Certified Nursing Assistant.
2
 

  

The Respondent testified and presented the following witnesses: f Facility

| find the following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:

1.

" PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

At all relevant times, the Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, under License No, D30542.

The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine and nephrology. At all
relevant times, the Respondent maintained an office for the practice of medicine in
Catonsville, Maryland.

On December 5, 2015, 8.W., employed by an entity called ia was
working as a personal care assistant (PCA) for Patient A. Part of S.W.’s duties as a
PCA included taking Patient A to and remaining with Patient A during medical ,

appointments.

4, a. clients are mentally disabled adults.

5.

S.W. is an adherent to the faith of Islam; she has been a practicing Muslim her whole
life. In keeping with the tenets of Islam, which partly call for worshipers to conduct
themselves with modesty while in public, S.W. wears a burqa, an outer garment
which covers her body from head to toe. The particular burqa worn by 8.W. has a
veil, or niqab, which enables her eyes tobe seen even as the rest of-her body is
covered. ;

On December 5, 2015, S.W. wore a burqa when she escorted Patient A-to the
Respondent’s office for a check up, after Patient A exhibited symptoms consistent
with a cold or other respiratory ailment.

3
7.

8.

10.

11.

The Respondent was Patient A’s primary care physician.

At the outset of Patient A’s examination, the Respondent was calm and cordial
towards S.W. as he-took down Patient A’s history. .

‘When it was time to conduct the physical examination of Patient A, the Respondent
asked S.W. if they could move to the larger exam. room and she agreed. Once they
were set up in the second room and the Respondent began the physical examination
of Patient A, the Respondent asked S.W. if she had heard about the December 2, 2015
shooting attack in San Bernardino, California, in which. a married pair of perpetrators, ,
rumored to be radical followers of Islam, opened fire on visitors and workers at the
Inland Regional Center, killing fourteen people and wounding twenty-two others.
When S.W. responded she had not heard about the San Bemardino attack, the
Respondent’s demeanor towards her changed. He became agitated and raised his
voice, and repeatedly asked her if she denounced the attack, or, alternatively, if she
supported the attackers’ actions. He remarked about the female attacker wearing a
burga and told S.W. the attackers were “doing jihad in the name of Allah.” (State Ex.
4, p.3.) S.W. tried to tell the Respondent that the attackers’ actions were not
representative of the teachings of Islam, but the Respondent talked over her, advising
her that murder is illegal in the United States, iterating “there will be no jihad in this
office” multiple times, and criticizing her for “daring” to wear a burqa to his office.
Although S.W. made efforts to placate the Respondent, hé continued to argue with .
her about the attackers, jihad in the name of Islam, and her wearing a burga. S.W.
asked the Respondent if he was finished examining Patient A. When the Respondent
did not answer, but continued his tirade, S.W. stepped into the hallway outside the
examination room to call her supervisor ae: advice on, how to proceed.

4
 

12. At some point during her phone call with the supervisor, S.W. indicated the
Respondent was behaving unprofessionally towards her, which further agitated the
Respondent. In response, he came into the hallway and walked towards S.W. with his
hand raised, asking in a loud voice, “What? What did you say?” As the Respondent
continued moving towards her, S.W. asked again if the Respondent was. finished with
Patient A. The Respondent replied by telling S.W. to get out of his office, returning
to the examination room, in which Patient A was still waiting, and closing and
locking the door to the room.

13. While S.W. and the Respondent were in the nativay, rl
supervisor whom S.W. called, could hear the Respondent yelling at S.W. When S.W.

advised Mr. at the Respondent had locked Patient A inside of the exam room,

oe her to call the police and then to call Me to

report what had happened.

14. S.W. called the police and another BE op -rsis0: to report what occurred. Two
uniformed officers eventually arrived on the scene. One officer remained with S.W.
to get her account of the events, while the other spoke with the Respondent. The
Respondent advised the police officer that be did not want S.W. back in his office.

15. At some point on December 5, 2015, another care provider ‘rom cries at
the Respondent’s office to retrieve Patient A and take him home.

16. S.W. filed an incident report with her supervisors i. December 5, 2015

at approximately 10:18 p.m.
 

17. S.B. is a Certified Nursing Assistant employed by P| a company

18.

19.

20.

which provides medical adult day care for disabled adults, including transportation to
medical appointments.

On February 22, 2016, S.B. was responsible for transporting Patient B, who was
wheelchair-bound, to an appointment with the Respondent. On that date, Patient B
was suffering from scabies, a contagious skin condition. As a precaution, $.B. wore
latex gloves when dealing with Patient B to avoid the spread of the disease.

After S.B. and Patient B arrived at the Respondents office, Patient B had to be lifted
from the wheelchair onto the examination table. This was accomplished using a piece
of medical equipment referred to as a Hoyer lift. The Respondent advised 8.B. to hold
onto the wheelchair while Patient B was transferred from the chair to the seat of the
Hoyer lift. As the examination room was not large enough to accommodate the lift,
the patient, the Respondent and $.B., 8.B. moved the wheelchair into the hallway
while the Respondent performed his examination of Patient B. S.B. waited in the
doorway to the exam room. After placing the wheelchair in the hallway, S.B.
removed the gloves she was wearing and discarded them.

At some point, the Respondent, in a loud voice, said to S.B., “I said come over here
and help me!” (Testimony, S.B.) S.B. was surprised because she believed the
Respondent was talking to Patient B. The Respondent yelled at S.B. that she needed
to assist him in turning Patient B around on the examination table. When 8.B.
advised the Respondent she needed to put on a pair of gloves first, hé yelled at her to
“get the fuck out of” the office. (Testimony, S.B.) S.B. advised that she could not

leave without Patient B, but the Respondent continued yelling at her to get out of the
 

office. ‘He advanced towards her, and pushed her in the shoulder with his hand while
telling her to get out of the office.

21.S.B. called her supervisor to report what was happening and for
advice on how to proceed, At some point, when both she and the Respondent were in
the hallway leading to the examination room, the Respondent locked the door to the
exam room while Patient B was still inside. At that point, Mr. | | listening
over the phone, advised S.B. to call the police, which she did.

22. At some point while $.B. and the Respondent were in the hallway, the Respondent
pushed the wheelchair into the back of S.B.’s legs.

23, At some point on February 22, 2016, another employee o: to
be dispatched to the Respondent’s office to retrieve Patient B.

24, The Respondent was previously disciplined by the Board for unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine in June 2010. The discipline included placement of the
Respondent on a three-year period of probation, with eight conditions of probation
the Respondent was required to satisfy before he could petition for the termination of
his probationary status. .

DISCUSSION
Legal Framework

The relevant grounds for reprimand or probation of a licensee, or suspension or
revocation of a license under the Act, include the following:

(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the

disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
 

(3) Is guilty of:

. & Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[.]
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) (Supp. 2016). Unprofessional conduct refers to
conduct that breaches rules or ethical codes of professional conduct, or is conduct unbecoming a
member in good standing in the profession. Finucan v. Maryland Bd. of Physician Quality
Assurance, 380 Md. 577, 593 (2004).

In a physician disciplinary proceeding, the Act, at Section 14-405(b)(2), places upon’

the State the burden of proving its charges by a preponderance of the evidence. For the reasons

- set forth below, I conclude the State has satisfied its burden with respect to the charges under the
Act at § 14-404(a)(3)Gi).
Arguments of the Parties /

The State argued the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine towards both S.W. and S.B., who were acting in their professional capacity as health
care workers on the relevant dates. The Respondent was verbally aggressive and physically
intimidating towards S.W. on December 5, 2015, and made remarks to her about her religious’
faith that were bigoted and inappropriate. The Respondent farther bebaved unprofessionally
when he locked Patient A, who was S.W.’s responsibility, in the examination room and refused
to give S.W. access to Patient A. By doing this, the Respondent interfered with the relationship
between'S.B. and Patient A as healthcare worker and client.

According to the State, the Respondent’s treatment of S.B. was equally unprofessional.
He raised his voice to her, swore at her, advanced towards her in a physically threatening manner
and physically assaulted her by pushing her in the shoulder and shoving a wheelchair into her:
The Respondent’s behavior was an extreme overreaction to his perception that S.B. was not

helping him deal with Patient B. Further, the Respondent again interfered in the health care
gi
and belligerent. In a raised voice, he repeatedly told her “there will be no jihad in this office,”
and he slammed a newspaper on the desk.

S.W. asked if Dr. Dalton was finished examining her client, and when he did not answer,
she walked into the hallway to call her supervisor to ask how she should handle the situation.
S.W. told her supervisor that Dr. Dalton was being unprofessional. Dr. Dalton followed her into
the hallway and, with his hand raised, walked towards her and asked, “You said what?” S.W.’s
supervisor testified that he heard Dr. Dalton yelling at S.W. while he and S.W. were talking on
the telephone. As Dr. Dalton walked towards her, S.W. felt fearful that he would hit her. S.W.
asked Dr. Dalton if she could have her client leave with her, and Dr. Dalton told S.W. to leave
his office, at which point, he went back into the examination room with Patient A and locked the
door. The Supervisor advised S.W. to call the police and call a higher-level supervisor at
Company A. S.W. called the police and another Company A supervisor. The police arrived and
took statements from §.W. and Dr. Dalton. Another care provider from Company A arrived at
Dr. Dalton’s office and took home Patient A. S.W. also completed an incident report with her
supervisors at Company A.

The second incident concerns S.B., a Certified Nursing Assistant, who worked for
Company B, a company which provides medical adult day care for disabled adults, including
transportation to medical appointments. On February 22, 2016, S.B. transported Patient B, a
wheelchair-bound patient suffering from scabies, a contagious skin condition, to an appointment
with Dr. Dalton. S.B. wore gloves around Patient B to avoid skin-to-skin contact. At Dr.
Dalton’s clinic, after helping Patient B from her wheelchair to the bed, S.B. moved the
wheelchair into the hallway and removed her gloves. Shortly after, S.B. heard Dr. Dalton

talking, but S.B. thought that Dr. Dalton was talking to the patient. Then Dr. Dalton said to S.B.,
 

worker-client relationship when he locked the examination room door while Patient B was still in
the exam room, thus separating Patient B from S.B., who was responsible for maintaining
custody and contro! over the patient. The State argued that neither S.W. nor S.B. engaged in any
. aggravating behavior that made the Respondent’s behavior either understandable or justifiable.
As a sanction, the State recommended the following to address the Respondent’s
behavior: (1) the Respondent undergo a neurocognitive evaluation to determine whether there is
an organic, physiological alteration to his cognition which causes him to engage in inappropriate
emotional outbursts; (2) the Respondent be suspended for a petiod of one year; and, (3) the
Respondent be referred to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (MPRP), for MPRP
to assess whether any additional remediation or rehabilitation is needed for the Respondent
before he returns to the practice of medicine. The State argued such sanctions are appropriate
because this is the second time the Respondent has been disciplined for engaging in
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. Alternatively, if T find that the Respondent is
not capable of being rehabilitated or is not susceptible to remediation measures, the State
recommended the revocation of his medical license as an appropriate sanction.
For his part, the Respondent acknowledged that be has “thin skin” (Tr.,° p. 364) and
can be easily provoked, and he conceded that his behavior towards both S.W. and S.B. escalated
_ into situations that were “regrettable” and “unfortunate.” (Tr., p. 438.) The Respondent denied
pushing the wheelchair into S.B.’s legs or pushing her in the shoulder, He denied saying the
word “fack to S.B., although he admitted he felt she was being unhelpful and that was a source
of frustration for him. He further admitted he sometimes is not aware of how he comes across to

others and thus did not realize how his behavior was perceived by S.W. and S.B.

3 The abbreviation “Tr.” Stands for “transcript.”
 

The Respondent argued a one-year suspension of his license to practice would wreak a
significant negative effect not only on him, but on his patients. In addition to his private —
practice, the Respondent also volunteers a substantial amount of his time to. serving as the
primary clinician for the p a Christian, non-profit shelter that.
services approximately 243 homeless clients in Baltimore City J: clientele is diverse, with
multiple ethnicities and religious faiths represented among those to whom the shelter provides
services. The Respondent is the. director ey medical clinic. On a weekly basis, he
supervises approximately ten to fifteen medical students in providing medical care 7 s
clients. Lf the Respondent were to be suspended for a year, his private practice would close, as
would: medical clinic. In short, a suspension of the Respondent’s license hurts, rather
than helps, the public. The Respondent was willing to accept a referral to the MPRP, and was
willing to undergo any other rehabilitative or remedial pro: gramming recommended by the
Board.

Analysis
Unprofessional Conduct in the Practice of Medicine

I note at the outset there is no dispute between the parties that the Respondent was a
licensed physician who was on duty and attending to his professional obligations on December 5,
2015 and February 22,2016. There is further no dispute that the Respondent engaged in some
form of verbal confrontation with S.W. on December 5, 2015 and with S.B. on February 22,
2016, that resulted in (1) him locking their clients in his examination room, out of their reach and
sight; and, (2) both women calling the police to aid in de-escalating the situation. At the heart of
this case lies the question of whether the Respondent’s conduct is properly characterized as

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine on one or both of the dates in question.

10
 

Taking all the presented evidence into consideration, J find it is more likely than not the
Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct towards both S.W. and S.B.

Incident on December 5, 2015

The evidence demonstrates that on December 5, 2015, the Respondent engaged in
escalating and inappropriate behavior towards §.W.; the Respondent’s behavior, whether he
intended it to do so or not, reflected a bias towards S.W.’s religious faith that understandably
made her uncomfortable. The Respondent compounded that error in judgment by becoming
increasingly verbally ageressive towards S.W., to the point she called her supervisor to report the
Respondent’s behavior and seek advice on how to proceed. The Respondent further inflamed the
situation by interfering with S.W.’s ability to retain custody and control of her client, Patient A,
when he locked Patient A in an exam room out of §.B.’s reach and sight, which prompted S.W.
to call the police. From the moment the Respondent started questioning S.W. about the attack in
San Bemardino to the moment he locked the exam room door, his behavior towards her was the
opposite of professional or even reasonable.

S.W, came to the Respondent’s practice on December 5, 2015 so her client could be
examined in relation to a cold or other respiratory ailment. She was not there to provoke the
Respondent, or to submit to an examination about her religious beliefs and practices. Bven if it
was reasonable for the Respondent to make colloquial “small talk” with S.W. about the week’s
biggest news event — the San Bernardino attack ~ it was neither reasonable, nor related to the
purpose of ‘her visit, for the Respondent to ask her if she denounced the attackers’ actions or to
lecture her about the laws of the United States. In his testimony, the Respondent explained that
he believed it was his duty to advise S.W. that under the laws of the United States, it is illegal to
murder people. (Tr., pp. 374-376; State Ex. 8.) The Respondent conceded he had no reason to
believe S.W. was planning to murder anyone, but he persisted that he believed it was appropriate

11
 

for him, as a-“respected doctor in the community” to “vet” S.W. about her religious beliefs and
to warn her that regardless of the teachings of her religion, murder is not permissible in the
United States. (Tr., pp. 395, 399-400.)

The Respondent did not disputé that he locked Patient A in the exam room, out of
S.W.’s reach and sight. According to him, he did:so because he thought it was rude of S.W. to
make a call on her cell phone in his consultation room, and he was upset she told the person to
whom she was speaking that the Respondent was behaving unprofessionally. The Respondent
seemed wholly unable to draw any correlation between (1) his decision to question S.W. about
her religious beliefs and to counsel her about the inappropriateness of committing murder and,
(2) 8.W.’s assessment of him as unprofessional and inappropriate.

The Respondent characterized his interactions with S.W. as a misunderstanding
between the two of them. I disagree. The Respondent made unfounded and, frankly, bigoted
assumptions about S.W. based on the fact of her religiously-mandated attire and, further, he
communicated those bigoted, unfounded assumptions to her. She did not misunderstand what he
was doing and she understandably found it to be discomfiting. That action, standing alone, could
merely be a lack of interpersonal sensitivity on the Respondent’ s part That action was not,
however, the only one the Respondent engaged in. He raised his voice at S.W., to include
admonishing her for wearing a burga to his office. He physically advanced on her while she was
on the phone with Mr, 7 his voice raised loud enough for Mr: - hear everything he
said through the phone. He slammed the door to the exam room containing Patient A so loudly
that Mr. eard it over the phone. The Respondent’s behavior towards S.W. was so
upsetting to her that by the time she called vo she was in tears. (T' cstimony la The

Respondent engaged in all of this conduct in front of Patient A.

12
There is no reasonable explanation for the Respondent’s behavior. There was no basis
for him to assume S. W. was involved in or approved of the San Bernardino attacks. There was
no basis for him to believe that because of her religious affiliation, she was in any way ignorant
of the laws of the United States. It was not appropriaté for him to “vet” her; she was not in his
office on a social call. By questioning S.W. about her religious beliefs, lecturing her on the
inappropriateness of committing murder, raising his voice at her multiple times because her
answers were apparently not satisfactory to him, and interfering with her custody and control
over her client, the Respondent behaved unprofessionally towards S.W. on December 5 , 2015.
He was clearly practicing medicine at the time of the incident, as all of the conduct occurred.
within the context of his examination of Patient A.

Incident on February 22, 2016 .

The evidence demonstrates the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct towards
S.B. on February 22, 2016. He raised his voice at her, physically advanced on her in an
. intimidating roanner, told her to get out of his office, and locked her client, Patient B, in his
examination room, out of her reach and sight. S.B. felt compelled to call the police once the
Respondent locked Patient B inside an examination Toor. .

The Respondent disputed some of S.B.’s characterization of events and argued that her
" recall of their interactions was exaggerated. Specifically, the Respondent denied pushing a
wheelchair into S.B.’s legs, pushing her in the shoulder, and telling her to “get the fuck out of”
his office. He conceded, however, that he felt S.B. was not helpful with Patient B and, as a

result, he became frustrated with her.

13
 

I find S.B.’s account of what occurred on February 22, 2016 to be credible and not
exaggerated. According to S.B., she had been to the Respondent’s office with clients on two
- occasions prior to February 22, 2016. There is no evidence of any histoty between the two of
them that indicates S.B. has a bias against the Respondent or any motive to falsely accuse him of
wrongdoing fi is S.B.’s supervisor iim corroborated.
S.B.’s testimony that the Respondent pushed her and pushed a wheelchair into her legs.
According to Mr. a: B. called him on February 22, 2016, in tears, and advised him (1)
someone needed to come retrieve Patient B from the Respondent’s office, and (2) the
_ Respondent pushed her and-hit her with a wheelchair. (Tr., p. 132.)
Contrary to the Respondent’s argument that S.B. is the only person who testified about
the whestchsis, Mc MMM bors S.B. on this point, and he indicated she made the
‘report to him contemporaneously with the incident. Critically, ves a favorable
history with the Respondent; the Respondent used to be his physician. That Mr. F |
despite a favorable history with the Respondent, nevertheless provided negative testimony about
the Respondent, lends credibility to S.B.’s assertion the Respondent pushed her and struck her
. with a wheelchair. I give more weight to the testimony of S.B. and Mr. an I do to
either the Respondent fT... both claimed the Respondent never touched S.B. in
any manner. The Respondent has a vested interest in downplaying the negative aspects of his
interactions with S.B. ws: the Respondent’s longtime employee! and, therefore, likely
has a favorable bias towards the Respondent. I find it more likely than not that the Respondent
pushed S.B. in the shoulder and pushed the wheelchair into S.B. while in the process of yelling at

"ber to get out of his office.

4 va: estified she has worked with the Respondent for eight years.
14 :
 

The Respondent further challenged S.B.’s assertion he cursed at her while telling her to
get out of his office; according to the Respondent and his witnesses, he never uses the f-word.
Mr. . estified that while he was on the phone with S.B., he heard the Respondent say “I
want her‘out of my office. I want her out of my damn office.” (Tr., P. 132.) I find the question
of which profane words the Respondent may have used on February 22, 2016 to be immaterial to
a finding that he engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine on that date. |
Regardless of what he might have said while doing so, the evidence is clear the Respondent
vehemently insisted $.B. get out of his office. S.B. testified he repeatedly told her to leave and
Mo TT vexacare the Respondent insisting S.B. needed to leave the office. The
Respondent became frustrated with what he perceived to be S8.B.’s unwillingness to assist him
with Patient B. (Tr., p. 324.) Rather than calmly repeat his request, or explain to her why he
needed her assistance, he became irate and started yelling at her to leave his office. He
compounded his poor judgment in this regard by locking Patient B in the examination room, out
of the reach and sight of S.B. By doing this, the Respondent unjustifiably interfered with S.B.’s
custody and control over her client, a move that necessitated S.B. calling the police.

The Respondent’s behavior on February 22, 2016 was unprofessional. Even if he was
frustrated with S.B., it was not appropriate to express that frustration by yelling at her, physically
intimidating her, physically assaulting her, and preventing her from retaining custody and control
of Patient B, who was ultimately her responsibility. The Respondent’s behavior was so out-of-
line that S.B. called her supervisor and the police as a means of attempting to deal with him. He
was practicing medicine at the time of the incident, as all of the conduct occurred within the
context of his examination of Patient B. For these reasons and those discussed above, I find the
State has satisfied its burden to demonstrate that on December 5, 2015 and February 22, 2016,
the Respondent violated Section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Act. .

15
Sanctioning Recommendation

Having found the State proved the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine, I now turn to the question of what sanction, if any, is appropriate, The
State recommended a one-year suspension of the Respondent’s license, along with a referral to
the MPRP, The State further recommended the Respondent submit to a neurocognitive
evaluation, the results of which could enable the Board to address his conduct more decisively.
Alternatively, if I find there is no purpose in attempting remediation, the State recoramended a
revocation of the Respondents license.

The Respondent recommended a sanction that is remedial or rehabilitative in nature
and argued a lengthy suspension would essentially be the end of his career as a physician. The
Respondent is willing to be referred to the MPRP and willing to comply with any conditions or
requirements imposed by the Board and related to addressing his propensity for being easily
provoked. The Respondent further indicated that he has enrolled in an anger management
program (see Resp. Ex. 6) and he is willing to submit to a neurocognitive evaluation.

The guiding regulations in this matter; found at COMAR 10.09.32.09B, provide in
pertinent part as follows:

B. ‘“Ageravating and. Mitigating Factors.

(1) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each case, and to the extent

fhat the facts and circumstances apply, the disciplinary panel may consider the

aggravating and mitigating factors set out in §B(5) and (6) of this regulation

and may in its discretion determine, based on those factors, that an exception

should be made and that the sanction in a particular case should fall outside the

range of sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

(5). Mitigating factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) The absence. of a prior disciplinary record;

(b) The offender self-reported the incident;

16
 

(c) The offender voluntarily admitted the misconduct, made full disclosure to
the disciplinary panel and was cooperative during the disciplinary panel
proceedings;
(d) The offender implemented remedial measures to correct or mitigate the
harm arising from the misconduct; .

- (e) The offender made good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify the
consequences of the misconduct; ot ,
() The offender has been rehabilitated or exhibits rehabilitative potential;
(g) The misconduct was not premeditated; :
(b) There was no potential harm to patients or the public or other adverse
impact; or :
(i) The incident was isolated and is not likely to recur.

(6) Aggravating factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) The offender has a previous criminal or administrative disciplinary history;
(b) The offense was committed deliberately or with gross negligence or
recklessness;

(c) The offense had the potential for or actually did cause patient harm;

(d) The offense was part of a pattern of detrimental conduct;

(€) The offender committed a combination of factually discrete offenses ;
adjudicated in a single action;

(® The offender pursued his or her financial gain over the patient’s welfare;
(g) The patient was especially vulnerable;

(h) The offender attempted to hide the error or misconduct from patients or
others; .

@) The offender concealed, falsified or ‘destroyed evidence, or presented false
testimony or evidence; :
G) The offender did not cooperate with the investigation; or
(k) Previous attempts to rehabilitate the offender were unsuccessful.
The State argued the existence of a significant aggravating factor — the Respondent was
’ previously disciplined for unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine as a result of
engaging in aggressive, emotional outbursts towards patients. According to the State, a stricter
sanction is required this time to (1) dissuade other physicians from engaging in similar

misconduct towards either patients or fellow health care professionals, and (2) ensure the

17
 

complainants feel as though they received justice for their mistreatment by the Respondent. As
the State noted, “If the Board does not take strong action to ferret out unprofessional conduct, the
public will be dispirited. It will think that its public bodies that regulate the profession aren’t
addressing serious situations in a serious way.” (Tr., p. 443 )

I am mindful-that the Respondent successfully completed the terms of probation
associated with the previous disciplinary order of the Board. I am further mindful that the
Respondent has a thriving private practice and a substantial voluntary practice, which have a

‘significant combined patient population served by the Respondent. I believe the Respondent to
be a dedicated physician who derives meaningful personal and professional satisfaction from
working with his patients. I am, however, troubled by the Respondent’s inability to see how
truly inappropriate his conduct was towards $.W. and 8.B. Although he conceded that after
hearing S.W. testify he came to understand her better, it was clear from his testimonial
responses, as well as his responses to the Board’s investigative inquiries, that he saw nothing
amiss in his attempt to “vet” her about her religious beliefs and to counsel her about the laws of
- the United States. He failed to see how his behavior directly contributed to her assessment of

_ him as unprofessional, and he had no insight into the complete inappropriateness of interfering
with her control and custody of her client. Patient A was in no danger from S.W.; there was
simply no good reason for the Respondent to lock Patient A out of S.W.’s reach and sight on,
December 5, 2015. Although the Respondent acknowledged he could have handled himself
better on that date, he did not seem to understand the particulars of his errors in decorum,

judgment and professionalism.

18
“T said come over here and help me!” Dr. Dalton yelled at S.B. that she needed to help rotate
Patient B on the examination table. S.B told him that she needed to put on a pair of gloves first.
Dr. Dalton, however, did not wait for her to put on gloves. Instead, he yelled at her to get out of
the office and repeatedly pushed her shoulder with his hand. Dr. Dalton then took the wheelchair
that was in the hallway and pushed it into the back of S.B.’s legs. S.B. called her supervisor to
report what had happened and asked what she should do. At that point, Dr. Dalton had locked
Patient B in the room, while S.B. was in the hallway. The Supervisor told her to call the police
and sent another employee. The police arrived and took statements from S.B. and Dr. Dalton,
and another employee retrieved Patient B.

The ALJ correctly noted that many facts are not in dispute. On both December 5, 2015,
and February 22, 2016, Dr. Dalton engaged in verbal confrontations with S.W. and S.B., which
resulted in Dr. Dalton “locking their clients in examination rooms” and “both women called the
police to aid in de-escalating the situation.” Before this Panel, Dr. Dalton states that he disagrees
with the specific findings, as found by the ALJ, but admits there is evidence in the record from
which the ALJ made her factual findings. In his exceptions, Dr. Dalton does not dispute any of
the facts pertaining to the incident with S.W. Dr. Dalton, however, disputes much of the incident
with S.B. He denies that he pushed S.B.’s shoulder and that he pushed a wheelchair into S.B.
Dr. Dalton notes that he and his assistant both denied that he pushed her or pushed the
wheelchair into S.B.

The ALJ noted that S.B.’s supervisor, who was a patient of Dr. Dalton and had a
favorable history with him, provided testimony against Dr. Dalton. The supervisor testified that
S.B. contemporaneously reported that Dr. Dalton pushed her and pushed a wheelchair into her.

S.B. has consistently reported this assault, not only contemporaneously to her supervisor, but
The Respondent was even more intransigent in his belief there was nothing amiss in his
behavior with S.B. He seemed to think his frustration at her perceived unwillingness to help him
with Patient B justified his decision to order her out of his office and, again, to interfere with her
custody and control of her client. He dismissed her recounting of the events of February 22, 2016
as “seventy-five percent ... a lie.” (Tr., p. 330, ) He downplayed the seriousness of S.B.’s
allegations against him by insisting they were exaggerated.

I agree with the State that given the repeat nature of the Respondent’s misconduct a more
serious sanction than the one imposed in June 2010 is appropriate. The Respondent’s behavior
, on December 5, 2015 and February 22, 2016 was without justification and was disproportionate
to whatever provocations he may have perceived $.W. and .S.B. to have committed. Regardless
of whether they were rude to him initially — and I have not found that they were — the
Respondent, as a licensed professional, nevertheless had a responsibility to: maintain his
composure and to conduct himself in a manner befitting his profession: He was previously
sanctioned for behaving unprofessionally and thus, he was aware of the kind of behavior the
Board considered to be beyond-the-pale. Based on the totality of the evidence, I find the State’s
recommendation to be reasonable and appropriate, and the Respondent should be suspended for
one year, referred to the MPRP for assessment, and should undergo a neurocognitive evaluation. —
I further agree that upon the lapse of the suspension period, the Respondent should return to a .
disciplinary panel of the Board to determine if additional measures are necessary.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the Proposed Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of law
that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine as a result of .
his behavior towards S.W. on December 5, 2015 and towards SB on February 22, 2016. Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ., § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (Stipp. 2016).

‘19
 

I further conclude as a matter of law that a one-year suspension of the Respondent’s
_ medical license, referral to the MPRP, and a neurocognitive evaluation constitute reasonable and
appropriate sanctions. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ., § 14-404(a) (Supp. 2016).

PROPOSED DISPOSITION

 

I PROPOSE that the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ September 2, 2016 charges

against the Respondent be UPHELD.

J further PROPOSE as follows:

1. The Respondent's license to practice medicine be suspended for one (1) year;

2. The Respondent be referred to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program for
the MPRP to assess whether any additional rehabilitative or remedial measures are
necessary to address the Respondent’s conduct;

3. The Respondent submit to a neurocognitive evaluation, the results of which will be
shared with the Maryland State Board of Physicians; and,

4. At tbe conclusion of the one-year suspension, the Respondent shall appear before a .
disciplinary panel of the Board so a determination can be made as to whether any

further steps are necessary. ,

 

March 6, 2017 a LoLinys ®: Dewan
.Date Decision Mailed : Latonya B. Dargan u—
‘Administrative Law Judge

LBD/sw
#166859

20
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

Any party may file written exceptions to this proposed decision with the disciplinary
panel of the Board of Physicians and-request a hearing on the exceptions. Md. Code Ann., State .
Gov’t § 10-216 (2014). Exceptions must be filed within fifteen (15) days from the date of this
proposed order. COMAR 10.32.02.05B(1). The exceptions and request for hearing must be
addressed to the disciplinary panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Attn: Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director.

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attorney, and the opposing
party will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response. Id. The
response noust be addressed as above. Id.

The Office of Administrative Hearings is not a party to any review process.

Copies Mailed To:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Compliance Administration

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, MD 21215

Robert J. Gilbert, Deputy Counsel

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General :

300 West Preston Sireet, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Thomas Schételich, Esquire
Ferguson, Schetelich & Ballew, P.A.
1401 Bank of America Center

100 South Charles Street
Baltimore, MD 21201

John §. Dalton, I, MD

John Nugent, Principal Counsel ,
Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General :
300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201
21
MARYLAND STATE * BEFORE LATONYAB. DARGAN,

BOARD OF PHYSICIANS _ . * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE

v. _* OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE

JOHN S. DALTON, It, M.D., '. * OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
RESPONDENT, * OAH Case No.: DHME-MBP-71-16-32064
LICENSE NO.: D30542. Ss *-“ MBP Case No.: 2016-04898

* * * * * * * * * * ‘ * * *

APPENDIX

I admitted the following exhibits for the State:
State Ex. 1: The Respondent’s licensing information

State Ex. 2: Final Decision and Order, Case Nos.: 2008-0550 and 2009-0815, dated
June 28, 2010

State Ex.3: Order Terminating Suspension and Probation, dated October 4, 2013
State Ex. 4: . Complaint from 8. W., dated December 23, 2015

State Ex.5: Baltimore County Police Department, Incident Report, dated December 5,
2015 -

State Ex. 6: Baltimore County Police Department, Incident Report, dated February 22,
2016

State Ex.7: | Medical Record for Patient A, dated December 5, 2015

State Ex. 8: The Board’s letter to the Respondent, dated April 6, 2016

State Ex. 9: The Respondent’s letter to the Board, fespending to the complaint, dated
- April 14, 2016

State Ex. 10: Transcription of interview with S.W., dated March 24, 2016
State Ex. 11: Transcription of interview with S.B., dated March 25, 2016

State Ex. 12: Transcription of interview with ited April 6, 2016
State Ex. 13: Not Admitted!

State Ex. 14: ‘Not Offered

State Ex. 15: Transcription of interview with the Respondent, dated July 14, 2016
: - State Ex. 16: Transcription of interview wi i dated July 15, 2016

State Ex. 17: Report of Board investigation, dated September 1, 2016

State Ex. 18: The Respondent’s letter to the Board, dated October 5, 2016

State Ex. 19: Charges Under the Maryland Medical Practice Act, dated September 2,
2016

State Ex. 20: Excerpt, American, Medical Association Code of Ethics
I admitted the following exhibits for the Respondent: .
Resp. Ex. 1: The Respondent’s personnel file

Resp. Ex. 2: Transcription of interview with

Resp. Ex. 3: Not Offered

Resp. Ex. 4: Photograph of office door

Resp. Ex.5: Not Offered

Resp. Ex. 6: Information about University Psychological Center, Inc.

 

1 State Exhibit 13 was offered, but an objection was made to its admission which I sustained. I retained the exhibit
to preserve the record, but I did not consider it in rendering this proposed decision.
also the same day, to the police, at a Board interview, and during her testimony at the hearing
before the ALJ. The ALJ found S.B.’s account credible and not exaggerated. In contrast, the
ALJ found Dr. Dalton not credible and found that his assistant was biased because she was a

long-time employee of Dr. Dalton.’

The ALJ heard live testimony from each of the witnesses
and accepted S.B.’s testimony as accurate. The Panel has carefully reviewed the testimony and
accepts the ALJ’s credibility determinations.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Unprofessional conduct includes conduct that is “unbecoming a member in good standing
of a profession.” Finucan v. Maryland Bd. of Physician Quality Assur., 380 Md. 577, 593
(2004). Here, there is no question Dr. Dalton’s conduct was unbecoming a member in good
standing of the medical profession.

Based on S.W.’s religious apparel, Dr. Dalton hectored her with inappropriate and
offensive queries on whether she agreed with the perpetrators of the San Bernardino shooting.
Dr. Dalton’s questioning of S.W. about her religious beliefs was offensive, demeaning, and
disturbing. His escalation, yelling that “there will be no jihad in this office,” is, of course, also
unacceptable. Dr. Dalton’s behavior was also physically threatening. He followed S.W. and
advanced toward her with his hand raised while screaming. Then he locked the patient in an
examination room away from his caregiver. His behavior is a clear case of unprofessional
conduct.

Then Dr. Dalton’s conduct got worse, considering his interaction with S.B. He yelled at

S.B., physically intimidated her, and physically pushed her, and pushed a wheelchair into her.

? The Panel does not accept the reasoning that “[Dr. Dalton] has a vested interest in downplaying the
negative aspects of his interactions with $.B.” ALJ Proposed Decision at 14. Dr. Dalton’s credibility
should not automatically be found to be diminished by his testifying on his own behalf.

5
Based on the Findings of Fact, and for the reasons described above, the Panel concludes
that Dr. Dalton is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

SANCTION

The ALJ recommended a one-year suspension; referral to MPRP for MPRP to assess
whether any additional rehabilitative or remedial measures are necessary to address Dr. Dalton’s
conduct; a neurocognitive evaluation; and, after the suspension, that he appear before the Panel
for a determination of any further steps. Dr. Dalton takes exception to the proposed sanction,
arguing that the sanction is excessive and would effectively end his practice and close his clinic.
Dr. Dalton discusses the aggravating and mitigating factors from the Board’s Sanctioning
Guidelines and argues that the sanction is punitive and inconsistent with the mission of the
Board.

Dr. Dalton’s conduct was egregious and troubling. He admitted having thin skin and
being “easily provoked.” In his interview with the Board, Dr. Dalton suggested that S.W.
provoked him by wearing a burqa in his office. This rationalization is cause for concern. Based
on S.W.’s attire, Dr. Dalton initiated a non-germane conversation about the San Bernardino
shooting and then escalated the encounter to where he was yelling at and physically intimidating
her, ultimately locking her out from the patient she was attending while screaming at her to leave
his office. This response to S.W.’s burga deeply concerns the Panel. As a medical professional,
Dr. Dalton must be able to maintain his professionalism and composure even in stressful or
confrontational situations. That he became so angry and aggressive towards S.W. based on
nothing other than what she was wearing, leads the Panel to have grave concerns about his

ability to control himself in situations where any conflict might arise.
His conduct pertaining to S.B. was similarly, if not more, troubling. Dr. Dalton did not
deem S.B. sufficiently responsive to his request for help. He responded by yelling, cursing, and
physically assaulting her. The Panel finds that Dr. Dalton’s behavior was out-of-control,
unacceptable, and clear evidence that he needs remediation.

Moreover, Dr. Dalton’s inappropriate conduct is not new. The Board issued a Final
Decision and Order in 2010, disciplining him for two instances of aggressive behavior, one
towards a patient and one towards a patient’s family. In this prior decision, the Board issued a
suspension but stayed the suspension while he underwent treatment for anger management. Dr.
Dalton downplays the prior violation and notes that he was compliant with the terms of that
Order and had no incidents between those incidents and the ones at issue in this case. Dr. Dalton
argues that the ALJ “essentially ignored” the period between the incident from the 2010 decision
and the incidents at issue here. While the Panel is unaware of any incident for this period, his
most recent behavior cannot be minimized. In the current case, within a three-month period, Dr.
Dalton had two entirely independent incidents where he became so aggressive that the patients’
aides had to retreat from Dr. Dalton’s advances and call their supervisors and the police.

Dr. Dalton argues that his prior discipline is the only aggravating factor in this case. The
Panel finds otherwise. First, Dr. Dalton argues that previous attempts to rehabilitate him were
successful. These newest incidents, however, demonstrate the contrary. Dr. Dalton committed
similar aggressive and unprofessional conduct, as before, with one that resulted in physical
assault. Similarly, Dr. Dalton claims that “[w]hen viewed over the past years, the incidents were
isolated.” As described above, two incidents, demonstrate repeated, not isolated, conduct.

Finally, Dr. Dalton suggests that a one-year suspension would be a punitive measure,

meant to provide justice for the victims’ mistreatment and would not advance patient safety. Dr.
Dalton acts, on occasion, with threats, intimidation, and, in one case, acted with physical force.
His prior discipline in 2010 was an insufficient deterrent to such conduct. The Panel believes
that a minimum six-month suspension is sufficient to protect the public if he is evaluated and
deemed safe to practice. The Panel, thus, is requiring that Dr. Dalton enroll in MPRP for
evaluation and treatment. The Panel will also suspend Dr. Dalton’s license for a minimum of six
months. After six months and after MPRP’s report regarding whether Dr. Dalton is safe to
practice, the Panel will assess MPRP’s recommendations and determine whether to reinstate Dr.
Dalton’s license, and if reinstated, whether to impose any reasonable conditions deemed
necessary, potentially including probation and further treatment by MPRP.
ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, on an affirmative
vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that John S. Dalton, II, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED for a minimum period of SIX MONTHS.’ The suspension goes into effect on
OCTOBER 2, 2017, to permit Dr. Dalton sufficient time to help his patients find alternative
provider arrangements while his license is suspended; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Dalton shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”). By September 18, 2017, Dr. Dalton shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation. By October 2, 2017, Dr. Dalton shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. Dr. Dalton shall fully and timely

cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not

> The suspension will not be terminated if Dr. Dalton fails to renew his license. If Dr. Dalton’s
license expires while his license is suspended, the suspension period is tolled. COMAR
10.32.02.05C(3).
limited to, the terms and conditions of any Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP; and it is
further

ORDERED that Dr. Dalton shall sign written release/consent forms, and update them, as
required by the Board and MPRP. Dr. Dalton shall sign written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any
and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that, during the suspension period, Dr. Dalton shall undergo an evaluation
by MPRP, or its agents, to determine whether he is fit to resume clinical practice and under what
conditions, if any; and it is further

ORDERED that, after six months from the beginning of his Suspension, Dr. Dalton may
submit a written petition to the Board requesting termination of his suspension. The
Administrative Prosecutor may submit a response to the request. Dr. Dalton shall then appear
before the Board panel sitting as a Reinstatement Inquiry Panel to determine whether his license
should be reinstated from suspension and, if reinstated, what terms and conditions, if any, which
may include probation, shall be imposed upon the termination of suspension. The Reinstatement
Inquiry Panel shall consider Dr. Dalton’s request, the response from the Administrative
Prosecutor, any MPRP’s reports, MPRP’s evaluation regarding whether Dr. Dalton is safe to
return to practice, and any information from the Reinstatement Inquiry Panel meeting while
making its decision. After consideration of the petition, the suspension may be terminated or

continued through an order of the Board panel; and it is further
ORDERED that Dr. Dalton is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Dalton allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition of this
Final Decision and Order, Dr. Dalton shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If
there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law
Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material
fact, Dr. Dalton shall be given a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel A; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or Panel A determines that
Dr. Dalton has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Final Decision and Order, the
Board or Panel A may reprimand Dr. Dalton, place Dr. Dalton on probation with appropriate
terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke Dr. Dalton’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland. The Board or Panel A may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth
above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Dalton; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed in this
Final Decision and Order begins when the Final Decision and Order goes into effect. The Final
Decision and Order goes into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Deputy Director, who
signs on behalf of the Panel; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document.

Ui Cus. L) |
te Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

 

10
