IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

HOWARD J. HOFFBERG, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D30980 * Case Number: 2221-0141B
* * * * x * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

 

PROCEDURAL HISTORY

Howard J..Hoffberg, M.D. was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on June 25, 1984, under license number D30980. On May 20, 2021, in the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland, Dr. Hoffberg pled guilty to one count of
Conspiracy to Violate Anti-Kickback statutes, in violation of 18 U.S.C, § 371. As of the date of
this Order, Dr. Hoffberg has not been sentenced.

On August 25, 2021, the Office of the Attorney General filed with the Maryland Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) a petition to suspend Dr. Hoffberg’s license to practice medicine (“the
Petition”) and a proposed show cause order pursuant to section 14-404(b)(I) of the Maryland

Medical Practice Act. The statute provides:

() On the filing of certified docket entries with the Board by the
Office of the Attorney General, a disciplinary panel shall order the
suspension of a license if the licensee is convicted of or pleads guilty or
nolo contendere with respect to a crime involving moral turpitude,
whether or not any appeal or other proceeding is pending to have the
conviction or plea set aside.

Md. Code Ann., Health Occupations Article (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(b) (2014 Repl. Vol. &

2020 Supp.). Attached to the Petition were copies of the plea agreement and stipulation of facts.
On September 27, 2021, Dr. Hoffberg, through his counsel, acknowledged receipt of the

Petition ‘and stated that he had discussed the Petition with his client.

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel B issues this Final

Decision and Order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1).

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:

1, On May 20, 2021, Dr. Hoffberg pled guilty to one count of Conspiracy to Violate
Anti-Kickback statutes, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371, in the United States District
Court for the District of Maryland.! USA v. Hoffberg, case number:
1:21-cr-00178-GLR-1.

2. The plea agreement contained a stipulation of facts, which included:

The Defendant, Howard Hoffberg, served as the Associate Medical
Director and part-owner of Rosen-Hoffberg Rehabilitation and Pain Management
(the “Practice”). :

The Defendant is a doctor and was licensed to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland. The Defendant was a Medicare provider and submitted claims
to Medicare, which is a “health care benefit program,” as defined in 18 U.S.C. §
24(b), and a “Federal health care program,” as defined in 42 U.S.C. §

 

' The elements of the offense, as contained in the plea agreement are, as follows:

a, That two or more persons agreed to defraud the United States by agreeing to obstruct or
interfere with one of the United States government’s lawful functions by deceit, craft,
trickery, or dishonest means, as charged in the Information, to wit, by soliciting or
receiving remuneration (in the form of kickbacks or bribes) in return for ordering, or
arranging for or recommending the purchasing of a good or item that could be paid for, in
whole or in part, by a Federal health care program, in violation of 42 U.S.C. §
1320a-7b(b);

b. That the Defendant was a party to or a member of that agreement;
c. That the Defendant joined the agreement or conspiracy knowing of its objective to
defraud the United States and intending to join together with at least one other

conspirator to achieve that objective;

d. That at some time during the existence of the agreement or conspiracy, at least one of its
members performed an overt act in order to further the objective of the agreement.
1320a-7b(f). In September 2011, the Defendant certified to Medicare that he
would comply with Medicare rules and regulations, including that he would
refrain from violating the federal anti-kickback statute. Further, in August 2013,
the Defendant certified to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), as
part of his ability to prescribe drugs known as Transmucosal Immediate Release
Fentanyl (“TIRF”) drugs, that: (a) he understood TIRF drugs are indicated only
for the management of breakthrough pain in cancer patients; (b) he understood
that TIRF drugs can be abused by patients; and (c) he understood that one TIRF
drug is not interchangeable with another TIRF drug.

’. However, starting in June 2012, the Defendant knowingly and willfully
solicited and received kickbacks and bribes for himself in the form of payments
from. Insys . Therapeutics, Inc. (“Insys”) and related entities, Insys is a
pharmaceutical company. In January 2012, the FDA approved Insys’s application
to sell and market a TIRF drug named Subsys. The FDA only approved Subsys to
treat cancer patients experiencing break-through pain, which is a sudden onset of
pain in cancer patients that cannot be controlled with their usual treatment
regimen. Subsys is a potent opioid designed to rapidly enter a patient’s
bloodstream upon being sprayed under the tongue. Subsys contains fentanyl,
which is a synthetic opioid pain reliever that has a high potential for abuse and
addiction. Because of the limited number of cancer patients experiencing
breakthrough pain who fit the FDA-approved criteria, Insys devised an illegal
kickback and bribery scheme to induce the Defendant and othcrs to prescribe
Subsys off-label. for conditions other than breakthrough pain in cancer patients.
In order:to coriceal and disguise that kickbacks and bribes were being paid to the
Defendant to prescribe Subsys, Insys falsely designated payments to the
Defendant as “honoraria” for purportedly providing educational programs about
Subsys (the “Speakers Bureau Program”). The Defendant’s participation in the
Speakers Bureau Program was a sham. The Defendant often made these
presentations at high-end restaurants, and to staff at the Practice and/or to persons
who could not even prescribe controlled substances. The Defendant knew that
these presentations were not designed to promote any bona fide educational
initiative about Subsys but rather were required to receive the honoraria, Indeed,
on one occasion, the Defendant was paid by Insys even though a speaking event
was cancelled and no educational presentation was given at all. The Defendant
was paid $66,600 by Insys and related entities for these events, including a check
in the amount of $3,000 on July 15, 2015, a check in the amount of $3,000 on
September 29, 2015, and a check in the amount of $3,000 on December 7, 2015.
These payments were in fact kickbacks and bribes that were paid, at least in part,
to induce the Defendant to prescribe, or in exchange for the Defendant
prescribing, Subsys. Pursuant to this illegal scheme, the Defendant did prescribe

_Subsys to patients of the Practice who were not suffering from cancer, some of
whom insurance coverage was paid for, in whole or in part, by a federal
healthcare program. He did so through January 2018. The Defendant switched
several other patients to Subsys from another fentanyl-based drug because of the
kickbacks he received from Insys, even though he previously certified that TIRF
drugs were not interchangeable.

3. As of the date of this Order, Dr. Hoffberg has not been sentenced.

DISCUSSION

Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), Dr. Hoffberg may respond to the order to show
cause, in writing, to address the following limited issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b)
Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the
defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.” Dr.
Hoffberg. submitted a response to the Petition, through counsel, simply stating that he
acknowledged the Petition to Suspend and discussed it with counsel. Accordingly, Dr. Hoffberg
did not dispute that the crime he pled guilty to, Conspiracy to Violate Anti-Kickback Statutes, is
a crime involving moral turpitude.

Under Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1), a disciplinary panel has the obligation and discretion
to determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral turpitude for licensing and
disciplinary purposes. “The term moral turpitude has been defined generally as importing an act
of baseness, vileness or depravity in the private and social duties which a man owes to his fellow
men, or to society. in general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and duty
between man and man.” Attorney Grievance Comm'n of Md. v. Walman, 280 Md. 453, 459
(1977) (internal quotation marks omitted). “[lI]t is settled that whatever else [moral turpitude]
may mean... a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element is a crime involving

moral turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of offenses involving intentional
dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude[.]” Jd. at 459-60,
“[I]n the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the concept of moral
turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 483
(2005).

The language of the statute that Dr. Hoffberg pled guilty to, 18 U.S.C. § 371 is:

If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the United
States, or to defraud the United States, or any agency thereof in any manner or for
any purpose, and one or more of such persons do any act to effect the object of the
conspiracy, each shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five
years, or both.

If, however, the offense, the commission of which is the object of the conspiracy,
is a misdemeanor only, the punishment for such conspiracy shall not exceed the
maximum punishment provided for such misdemeanor.

Read together with the elements of the crime enumerated in the plea agreement, an intent to
defraud is an essential element of the crime that Dr. Hoffberg pled guilty to. A “significant
characteristic of conspiracy to commit a crime is that the defendant, to be found guilty of
conspiracy, ‘must have a specific intent to commit the offense which is the object of the
conspiracy.” Alston v. State, 414 Md. 92, 114-15 (2010). Accordingly, through Dr. Hoffberg’s
conspiracy, he possessed the specific intent to knowingly defraud the U.S. Government, which
constitutes a crinie involving moral turpitude per se.

In addition to the elements of the crime, the stipulated facts in this case also establish that
Dr. Hoffberg’s crime involved moral turpitude. In considering the facts of the case, the relevant
consideration is whether the crime “was accompanied by a fraudulent or dishonest intent.”
Walman, 280 Md. at 462. In this case, Dr. Hoffberg admitted to accepting money in exchange
for prescribing Subsys to his non-cancer patients, which was not medically indicated and, in

doing so, was dishonest to his patients and the government for purposes of his own personal
gain. Walman, 280 Md. at 459-60. Therefore, the facts of this case also establish that Dr
Hoffberg pled guilty to a crime involving moral turpitude.
CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the above-discussion, Panel B concludes that Dr. Hoffberg’s guilty plea and
conviction for Conspiracy to Violate Anti-Kickback Statutes is a crime involving moral
turpitude, As a result, Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1) requires Panel B to order the suspension of
Dr. Hoffberg’s license following his guilty plea and prior to his sentencing date.

ORDER

It is, by Board Disciplinary Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the license of Howard J. Hoffberg, M.D., license number D30980, to
practice medicine in Maryland is SUSPENDED, as mandated by Health Occ, § 14-404(b)(1);
and it is further

ORDERED that this isa PUBLIC DOCUMENT, See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §

1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director /
ysicians {

cifio [202-2

ee

     

Maryland State Board of P’
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW.

Pursuant: to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Hoffberg has the right to seek

- judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed

within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover

letter accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any

petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act,

Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of
Procedure.

If Dr. Hoffberg files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition for judicial review should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the
following address:

Stacey Darin, Assistant Attorney General
Office of the Attorney General

Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
