Christopher Wendel, M.D.

Febrvg v , 2017

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D31154
MBP Case Number: 2017-0242

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland, License Number D31154, effective immediately. I understand that
upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with
or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice
of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and
other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed
individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”)
acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A.

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation concerning my medical leave of
absence. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to
avoid further investigation and due to my current health issues. I recognize that for all purposes
relevant to medical licensure that there is sufficient evidence to support a conclusion that I am
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid further investigation and the issuance of charges. I do not wish to
contest the allegations that I am currently professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (4).

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest
any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony,
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Christopher Wendel, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license as if it
were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any
other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board
or Panel A to the same extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my
original Maryland medical license number D31154, and my most recent wallet-sized renewal
card. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license

will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply
for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor is not
required to grant reinstatement. I further understand that if I ever file petition for reinstatement, I
will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked. I also understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of
demonstrating my professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the satisfaction of
Panel A or its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand
and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I
voluntarily choose to surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms
and conditions set out herein. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

CNWendel b>

Christopher Wendel, M.D.
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Christopher Wendel, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY
‘\
sTATEOR _ ( 3 c

CITY/COUNTY oF — (S\C-

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this LU day of \ A\XV, 2017 before me, a Notary

Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Christopher Wendel, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender
was his voluntary act and deed.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal. ~~

 
 
   

- DORIS P.IACON'
a NOTARY PUBLIC
‘STATE OF DELAWARE
Notary Public \ MY COMMISSION EXPIRES JULY 28, 2016

. . vd
My commission expires: ‘| = 2¥ ~ COXd

ACCEPTANCE

 

day of @/42017, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Christopher Wendel, M.D.’s
SURRENDER of his license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Christine A. Chaustine A. utive Director
Maryland Board of Physiéi

PE of Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland Board of Physicians, on this a

   

 

  
