IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

PARAMJIT S. AJRAWAT, M.D., * STATE BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Respondent. * Case Number 2016-0829 A

License Number D32506 *

he ee ee 2 2 2 2 2 9 2 2 Re Ee 2 oe ot oe fe fe Reo 2 2 2 at fe 2 2 ee 2 ee oft 2 fe fe of oR okt oft ok oe of of ok oe oe eo oe oe oe 2c 9k oo KK oo oR oR oR oo

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
Paramjit S. Ajrawat, M.D. was initially licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on July 8, 1985, and at all times relevant to the charges in this case, Dr. Ajrawat has
held a license to practice medicine in the State. On September 4, 2015, after a jury trial in the
United States District Court for the District of Maryland (“U.S. District Court”), Dr. Ajrawat was
found guilty of health care fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1347,' false statements related to
health care matters, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1035(a),” obstruction of justice, in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1512(c)(2),° wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343,* and aggravated identity theft,

in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1028A(a)(1).° (Criminal Case No. 8:14-CR-00316-DKC-1).

'18 U.S.C. § 1347 provides: “(a) Whoever knowingly and willfully executes, or attempts to execute, a scheme or
artifice: (1) to defraud any health care benefit program; or (2) to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any health
care benefit program, in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items, or services, shall
be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.”

18 U.S.C. § 1035(a) provides: “Whoever, in any matter involving a health care benefit program, knowingly and
willfully: (1) falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or (2) makes any
materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations, or makes or uses any materially false writing
or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, in
connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items, or services, shall be fined under this title
or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.”

318 U.S.C. § 1512(c)(2) provides: “Whoever corruptly . . otherwise obstructs, influences, or impedes any official
proceeding, or attempts to do so, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.”

18 U.S.C. § 1343 provides: “Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or
for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or
causes to be transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication in interstate or foreign commerce, any
writings, signs, signals, pictures, or sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be fined under
this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.”

518 U.S.C. § 1028A(a)(1) provides: “Whoever, during and in relation to any felony violation enumerated in
subsection (c), knowingly transfers, possesses, or uses, without lawful authority, a means of identification of another
On April 11, 2016, the U.S. District Court judge sentenced Dr. Ajrawat to a total term of
111 months imprisonment, three years of supervised probation upon release, and ordered to
immediately pay, in full, restitution in the amount of $3,103,874.58.0n April 20, 2016, Dr.
Ajrawat noted an appeal. As of the date of this Order, Dr. Ajrawat’s appeal has not been
decided.

On September 21, 2016, the Office of the Attorney General filed with the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (“Board”) a petition to suspend Dr. Ajrawat’s medical license (“the
Petition”) and show cause order pursuant to section 14-404(b)(1) of the Medical Practice Act.
The statute provides:

(1) On the filing of certified docket entries with the Board by the Office of the

Attorney General, a disciplinary panel shall order the suspension of a license

if the licensee is convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere with respect

to a crime involving moral turpitude, whether or not any appeal or other

proceeding is pending to have the conviction or plea set aside.
Mb. CODE ANN., HEALTH Occ. (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(b). Attached to the Petition were
certified copies of the docket entries, the criminal indictment, the verdict sheet, and the judgment
of the U.S. District Court.

On September 22, 2016, the Board mailed the Petition and the show cause order to Dr.
Ajrawat. Dr. Ajrawat was ordered by the Board to show cause in writing, on or before October
26, 2016, if there was any reason why his license should not be suspended. To date, the Board
has not received a response from Dr. Ajrawat.

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel A issues this Final

Decision and Order.

 

person shall, in addition to the punishment provided for such felony, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of 2
years.”
FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:

1. Dr. Ajrawat was initially licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland on July 8,
1985, and at all times relevant to the charges in this case, Dr. Ajrawat has held a license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.°

2. On June 10, 2015, the United States Attorney for the United States District Court for the
District of Maryland (“U.S. Attorney”) filed a second superseding criminal indictment’ in
the U.S. District Court charging Dr. Ajrawat with health care fraud, two counts of false
statements related to health care matters, obstruction of justice, four counts of wire fraud,
and four counts of aggravated identity theft.

3. The indictment alleged that Dr. Ajrawat and his wife*® owned and operated a pain
management clinic in Greenbelt, Maryland and, in the course of operating the practice,
defrauded several health care benefit programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The
allegations of fraud included billing for procedures that were not performed, submitting
claims for services that were not rendered in compliance with the submitted Current
Procedural Terminology (“CPT”)? codes, and billing for services that were not medically
necessary. The reimbursement payments were paid by the health care benefit programs
and deposited into the couple’s bank account through a wire transfer. The indictment
alleged that Dr. Ajrawat used the actual name, insurance, and identification number of his
patients in conjunction with the health care fraud and wire fraud scheme. When Dr.
Ajrawat and his wife found out that they were being investigated by federal law
enforcement agencies they hired a shredding company to shred patient medical records
and discouraged staff members from cooperating with law enforcement.

4. On July 28, 2015, Dr. Ajrawat entered a plea of not guilty on all counts of the second
superseding indictment.

5. A jury trial began on August 24, 2015 and concluded, after eight days of trial, on
September 2, 2016.

6. On September 4, 2016, the jury found Dr. Ajrawat guilty of health care fraud, two counts
of false statements related to health care matters, obstruction of justice, four counts of
wire fraud, and aggravated identity theft.

° Dr. Ajrawat’s license to practice medicine, license number D32506, expired on September 30, 2016. The Medical
Practice Act, however, precludes the lapse of a license “by operation of law while the individual is under
investigation or while charges are pending.” Health Occ. § 14-403(a). In this case, the Petition was mailed to Dr.
Ajrawat on September 22, 2016, before his license expired. Therefore, Dr. Ajrawat’s license was not permitted to
lapse while the charges in this case were pending.

7 Prior criminal indictments were filed on June 25, 2014 and March 4, 2015.

®Sukhveen Kaur Ajrawat, Dr. Ajrawat’s wife, was also indicted in this case. The charges against her, however, were
dismissed after she died on February 1, 2016.

° A CPT code is a number that refers to a specific medical service provided to a patient.

3
7. On April 11, 2016, the U.S. District Court judge sentenced Dr. Ajrawat to a total term of
111 months imprisonment, three years of supervised probation upon release, and ordered
to immediately pay, in full, restitution in the amount of $3,103,874.58.

8. On April 20, 2016, Dr. Ajrawat noted an appeal, which is currently pending in the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A has considered all of the evidence before it and decides the legal issues as
follows:

The statutory text is clear that fraud is an essential element of at least three of the crimes
of which Dr. Ajrawat was convicted. Health care fraud includes the knowing and willful
execution of a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or to obtain money or property
of any health care benefit program by false or fraudulent pretenses.18 U.S.C. § 1347 (emphasis
added). False statements related to health care matters includes knowingly and willfully making
any materially fraudulent statements or representations, or knowingly using any document, in
connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, that contains any materially
false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement. 18 U.S.C. § 1035(a) (emphasis added). Finally, wire
fraud includes devising or intending to devise any scheme to defraud, or obtain money or
property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, by means of wire, radio, or television
communication in interstate or foreign commerce. 18 U.S.C. § 1343 (emphasis added), These
crimes committed by Dr. Ajrawat constitute moral turpitude per se, based solely on the elements
of the crimes.

When fraud is not an explicit element of the crime, the analysis of whether the crime
involves moral turpitude depends on the particular facts of each individual case. See Attorney
Grievance Comm’n of Mad. v. Walman, 280 Md. 453, 460 (1977). In considering the facts of the

case, the relevant consideration is whether the crime “was accompanied by a fraudulent or
dishonest intent.” Jd. at 462. The facts supporting Dr. Ajrawat’s convictions for the crimes of
obstruction of justice and aggravated identity theft establish that these convictions were for
conduct that was part and parcel of the health care fraud scheme that Dr. Ajrawat engaged in for
personal gain and with the intent to defraud. Under Maryland law, “‘it is settled that whatever
else [moral turpitude] may mean . . . a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element
is a crime involving moral turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of offenses involving
intentional dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude[.]”
Walman, 280 Md. at 459-60. See also Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. of Physicians, 162 Md.
App. 457, 486 (2005).

By using the actual name, insurance, and identification number of his patients in
conjunction with the health care fraud and wire fraud scheme, Dr. Ajrawat intended to defraud
and deceive government health programs in order to obtain monetary reimbursement to which he
was not entitled. His offenses were characterized by repeated deceit and intentional dishonesty
for purposes of his own personal gain. By hiring a shredding company to shred patient medical
records and discouraging his staff from cooperating with law enforcement, Dr. Ajrawat acted
deliberately to conceal critical information from criminal authorities and keep them in the dark
about his criminal billing activities. Dr. Ajrawat’s crimes were “intentional, or not innocent in
[their] purpose, or not accidental.” Board of Dental Exam’rs v. Lazzell, 172 Md. 314, 322
(1937). The facts underlying Dr. Ajrawat’s criminal convictions, therefore, also established
moral turpitude. Oltman, 162 Md. App. at 486.

Moreover, “in the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the
concept of moral turpitude is rather broad.” Jd. at 483. Panel A concludes that the totality of Dr.

Ajrawat’s criminal conduct undermines the public’s confidence in the medical profession. See
Stidwell v. Maryland State Bd. of Chiropractic Exam’rs, 144 Md. App. 613, 619 (2002) (a
criminal offense that undermines the public’s confidence in a profession may be a crime of moral
turpitude if so determined by the appropriate licensing board). Dr. Ajrawat’s repeated fraudulent
billing was “an act of baseness, vileness, or depravity in the private and social duties which a
man owes to his fellow man, or to society in general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule
of right and duty between man and man.” Walman, 280 Md. at 459 (quoting Braverman v. Bar
Ass’n. of Balto., 209 Md. 328, 344, cert. denied, 352 U.S. 830 (1956)). In Panel A’s view, Dr.
Ajrawat’s exploitation of health care programs, obstruction of justice, and aggravated identity
theft disparaged professional principles and disgraced the medical profession. Thus, under any
definition of the term, under Maryland law, Dr. Ajrawat’s convictions constituted crimes of
moral turpitude, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404 (b)(1).

Accordingly, Panel A concludes that Dr. Ajrawat was convicted of multiple crimes
involving moral turpitude. In light of Dr. Ajrawat’s pending appeal, the Panel is mandated to
suspend Dr. Ajrawat’s license to practice medicine.

ORDER

It is, by Board Disciplinary Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the license of Paramjit S. Ajrawat, M.D., license number D32506, to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, is SUSPENDED, as mandated by Health Occ. § 14-
404 (b)(1); and it is further

ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT.

fis [1 Cia, S Swot

Date Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Ajrawat has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If Dr. Ajrawat files a Petition for Judicial Review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any Petition for Judicial Review should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at

the following address:

Stacey M. Darin, Assistant Attorney General
Office of the Attorney General

Department of Health and Mental Hygiene
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
