IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

LAURIE POSS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D32567 * Case Number: 7718-0102
* * & * * * * x * * t * *

ORDER TERMINATING PROBATION

On June 26, 2013, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) and Laurie Poss,
M.D., entered into a Consent Order wherein Dr. Poss’s license was suspended, and she was required
to comply with certain terms and conditions including that she enters into the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and comply with all of MPRP’s recommendations.
On November 12, 2015, Disciplinary Panel A (the “Panel”) of the Board issued an Order After
Show Cause Hearing, concluding that Dr. Poss violated the terms of her Consent Order because she
failed to take a physician re-entry examination, which was recommended by the MPRP. The Panel
ordered that Dr. Poss's license remain suspended and permitted Dr. Poss to petition the panel to
terminate her suspension after she completed and passed a re-entry examination and any other
evaluations required by the MPRP.

On April 19, 2018, after consideration of Dr. Poss’s petition to terminate her suspension and
the entire record in this case, the Panel issued an Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing
Probation! that placed Dr. Poss on probation for a minimum of three (3) years with terms and
conditions, including, being supervised by a panel-approved workplace monitor or peer supervisor

for a minimum of one (1) year and continued compliance with all of MPRP’s recommendations.

| The June 26, 2013 Consent Order, November 12, 2015 Order After Show Cause, and April 19, 2018 Order
Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation are incorporated by reference and available upon request.
Dr. Poss has complied with the terms and conditions of probation and three (3) years have passed. It
is thus hereby

ORDERED that the probation imposed by the April 19, 2018 Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation is TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document.

wan |Dea4 Signature On File

Ellen Douglas Smith
Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
