Bradley Harper, M.D.

February 27, 2017

Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, MD 21215
RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D32772
Case Number: 2217-0004

Dear Members of the Board:

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland, License Number D32772, effective immediately. I understand that
upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with
or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice
of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in Maryland Medical Practice Act (the
“Act”), Md. Health Occ. Code Ann., § 14-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable
laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the
State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on the Board’s
acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of the Board.

My decision to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland has been prompted by the Board’s investigation into my compliance with Continuing
Medical Education (CME) requirements. The Board’s random audit of my 2016 license renewal
application revealed that although I represented that I met the Board’s CME requirements, I did
not actually complete the required (50) hours of CME credits.

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid sanction from having attested in my license renewal application to
completeing my fifty (50) hours (CME) requirements, when I had not. If an investigation ensued,
the Board would or may have pursued disciplinary charges under Md. Health Occ. Code § 14-
404 (a)(3)(ii) and (36).
Re.: Letter of Surrender
Bradley Harper, M.D.
February 17, 2017

Page 2 of 4

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. J also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in
any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by the Board.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my
original Maryland medical license, number D32772, any renewal wallet cards, and wall
certificate. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, J understand that Panel A or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if.I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked. I also understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the
burden of demonstrating my professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the
satisfaction of Panel A or its successor.
Re.: Letter of Surrender
Bradley Harper, M.D.
February 17, 2017

Page 3 of 4

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for any
reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be
represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine
in Maryland. I understand this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily. ,

Sincerely,

Bradléy Harper, M.D.
 

Re.: Letter of Surrender
' Bradley Harper, M.D.
February 17, 2017

Page 4 of 4

NOTARY

STATE OF Vit ONAL OW

CITY/COUNTY OF
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this AQ — day of Vv , 2017, before
me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid personally appeared ex, and

declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender
was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and notarial seal.
Ci ty
“Nota ry Public; YZ
Cony!

My commission expires: JUYLe, 20,2080

ACCEPTANCE

 

 

2017, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Bradley Harper, M. D.’s i cRNA
his license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Chustins A.
Christine A. me fh

Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

 
