IN THE MATTER OF z BEFORE THE

M. MICHAEL MASSUMI, M.D. . MARYLAND STATE
Respondent . BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D32831 i Case Number: 7713-0070
* * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

On September 29, 2015, Disciplinary Panel A (Panel A") of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged M. MICHAEL MASSUMI, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D32831, with violating the probationary conditions
imposed under the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation, dated May
1, 2013; and with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II”) §§ 14-101 ef seq. (2009 and 2014 Repl. Vols.).

Specifically, Panel A of the Board charged the Respondent with violating
Condition No. Three (3) of the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation,
dated May 1, 2013, which states:

Dr. Massumi must comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md.

Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 - 14-702, and all laws and regulations

governing the practice of medicine in Maryland[.]

Disciplinary Panel A of the Board also charged the Respondent with violating the
following provision of the Act under Health Occ. II § 14-404(a):

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer

review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an

outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this
State[.]
On December 2, 2015, the Respondent appeared before Disciplinary Panel A.
As a result of negotiations occurring before Disciplinary Panel A, the Respondent
agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of Procedural Background,
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and Notary.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel A makes the following Findings of Fact:
I. Background/Disciplinary History

fe The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland
on September 17, 1985, under License Number D32831. The Respondent's medical
license is active and is current through September 30, 2017.

2 The Respondent is board-certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation.
The Respondent maintains a medical office at 660 Kenilworth Drive, Suite 200, Towson,
Maryland 21204.

3: In or around 2010, the Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent
under Case Number 2009-0512 after receiving a complaint from a former patient who
alleged that the Respondent provided inappropriate treatment for her chronic back pain.

4. On March 24, 2011, the Board issued disciplinary charges against the
Respondent under Case Number 2009-0512.

5; On January 17, 2013, after an evidentiary hearing before the Maryland
Office of Administrative Hearings, the Board issued a Final Order in Case Number
2009-0512 in which it found as a matter of law that the Respondent violated the
following provisions of the Act: Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of

medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); Fails to meet appropriate
44. On July 19, 2013, the Respondent noted in his office note that he asked
Patient C "to desist from non-prescribed analgesics."

45. On September 20, 2013, the Respondent ordered a UDS that was positive
for cocaine. The UDS was also positive for gabapentin, which the Respondent did not
prescribe.

46. On October 14, 2013, the Respondent noted, "UDT abnormalities have
been discussed. If repetitive they may be grounds for dismissal."

47. On November 11, 2013, the Respondent noted, "We have noted
sequential irregularities on her UDT. She has been formally asked to seek immediate
detox. Her follow-up here is predicated on this." The Respondent continued Patient C
on opioid medications, however.

48. On December 10, 2013, the Respondent noted, "We are awaiting the most
recent UDT results to make a decision as to possible benefits from detox."

49. On January 10, 2014, the Respondent ordered a UDS that was positive
for cocaine. The UDS was also positive for clonazepam, a drug the Respondent was
not prescribing at that time. The UDS was negative for Soma, which the Respondent
regularly prescribed. .

50. The January 10, 2014, UDS report indicates that a UDS was performed on
December 10, 2013. The January 10, 2014, report states that a December 10, 2013,
test noted a positive finding for buprenorphine, which the Respondent did not prescribe.
The Respondent's chart does not contain a formal UDS report from December 10, 2013,
however. These UDS results indicate that Patient C tested positive for cocaine on at

least two occasions.

11
51. On February 7, 2014, the Respondent noted, "Her follow-up is contingent
on her seeking counseling and Detox from illicits.". Despite this note, the Respondent
continued prescribing opioid medications to her, without an alteration in dosage. The
Respondent's note for this date does not state what if any detoxification or therapy
treatment Patient C may have undergone. On this date, the Respondent ordered UDS
that was positive for opiates but negative for Soma, which he had been continually
prescribing for her.

52. The Respondent continued to treat Patient C until in or around August
2014. During that treatment period, he provided interventional injection therapy and
continued to prescribe opioid and non-opioid medications.

53. On April 7, 2014, and July 3, 2014, the Respondent ordered UDS that,
while positive for opioids, was negative for Soma. The Respondent did not address this
inconsistency in his notes and did not adjust his prescribing of Soma, for which Patient
C continued to test negative.

Patient D

54. The Respondent treated Patient D, a man in his early-30s, for spine and
knee pain. The Respondent's medical records note treatment provided from May 2013
through August 2014. During this treatment period, the Respondent performed
interventional injection therapy and prescribed various opioid and non-opioid
medications including fentanyl patches, hydrocodone (Lortab 7.5/500 mg TID) and
Soma 350 mg.

55, On May 6, 2013, the Respondent mailed Patient D a prescription for

fentanyl patches. The Respondent did not document this prescription in a progress

12
note. The Respondent continued to prescribe fentanyl patches for Patient D until near
the end of the treatment period.

56. On May 20, 2013, the Respondent faxed in a prescription for hydrocodone
(Lortab) to an area pharmacy for Patient D. The Respondent did not document this
prescription in an office note, however.

57. On May 29, 2013, the Respondent prescribed hydrocodone and Soma.
On this date, the Respondent ordered UDS that, while positive for hydrocodone and
Soma, was negative for fentanyl. The Respondent did not address this finding in his
progress notes or otherwise address this inconsistency.

58. On June 24, 2013, the Respondent added temazepam to his prescribing
of hydrocodone and Soma. On June 28, 2013, Patient D picked up a prescription for
fentanyl patches from the Respondent's office. The Respondent did not document this
prescription in his progress note.

59. On August 19, 2013, the Respondent documented for the first time
prescribing fentanyl patches in his progress notes.

60. On September 13, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that was negative
for fentanyl and Soma, medications the Respondent had prescribed. In his progress
note for this date, the Respondent noted, "no abuse on medication database review."

61. On October 11, 2013, the Respondent noted, "UDT is unremarkable."
The Respondent did not note Patient D's negative UDSs for fentanyl in this note.

62. On December 2, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that was negative

for fentanyl and hydrocodone, medications the Respondent had been prescribing on a

13
monthly basis. The Respondent did not address these inconsistent findings in his notes
or take appropriate action in view of these inconsistencies.

63. On December 30, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that he stated was
"unremarkable." The Respondent did not order any subsequent UDS until July 16,
2014.

64. The Respondent continued to perform lumbar spinal injections in
December 2013 and February 2014, and performed prolotherapy from April through
July 2014. The Respondent continued to prescribe fentanyl patches, hydrocodone,
Soma and temazepam until June 2014, after which he discontinued prescribing fentanyl
patches and hydrocodone. On a visit dated August 18, 2014, the Respondent
prescribed oxycodone 5 mg.

Patient E

65. |The Respondent treated Patient E, a woman in her early-50s, for neck and
arm pain. The Respondent's medical records noted treatment provided from May 2013
through December 2013. During this treatment period, the Respondent performed a
series of peripheral injections and prescribed opioid and non-opioid medications
including OxyContin 20 mg (typically TID), Soma and Topamax.

66. On May 10, 2014, the Respondent ordered UDS that was positive for
methamphetamine. The Respondent did not address this finding in his note.°

67. On September 6, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that was positive for

cocaine. Patient E's UDS was also positive for methadone and temazepam, neither of

* In a supplemental memorandum, dated May 25, 2015, the Respondent stated that Patient E's positive
methamphetamine finding was "related to her weight loss program under the care of her primary care
physician and not illicit use." The Respondent did not note this in his progress notes, however.

14
which the Respondent prescribed. The Respondent did not address these findings in
his note.

68. On September 25, 2013, the Respondent provided Patient E with a
"warning on the irregularity of her UDT." On this date, the Respondent ordered UDS
that was positive for cocaine. The Respondent did not address this finding in his note.
On this visit, the Respondent continued to prescribe OxyContin 20 mg BID (twice per
day) and also began prescribing oxycodone 5 mg BID, despite positive test findings for
illicit controlled substances and Schedule II controlled substances he had not
prescribed.

69, On October 22, 2013, the Respondent's note states, "UDT irregularities
are of concern and have been noted. If repetitive they may be grounds for dismissal of
care." The Respondent ordered UDS for this date that was positive for cocaine.
Notwithstanding these findings, the Respondent continued to prescribe OxyContin 20
mg BID and oxycodone 5 mg BID on this visit.

70. On December 9, 2013, the Respondent's note indicates that "illicits have
been registered in [Patient E's] UDT" and that he will discharge her from care and will
provide her with a list of detoxification programs. Despite discharging Patient E due to
her use of illicit drugs, the Respondent provided her with prescriptions for OxyContin,
Vistaril and Soma.

71. |The Respondent's actions, as described above, constitute failing to meet
appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of
quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office,

hospital, or any other location in this State, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(22).

15
72. The Respondent's actions, as described above, constitute a violation of
Condition No. Three (3) of the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation,
dated May 1, 2013.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel A finds as a matter of
law that the Respondent violated: Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), Fails to meet
appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of
quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office,
hospital, or any other location in this State; and Condition No. Three (3) of the Order
Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation, dated May 1, 2013.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, by a
majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel A considering this case, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland is SUSPENDED for NINETY (90) DAYS, commencing on January 1, 2016,
and concluding on March 30, 2016; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the NINETY (90) DAY SUSPENSION
imposed above, Panel A shall ADMINISTRATIVELY TERMINATE the suspension; and
it is further

ORDERED that after Panel A administratively terminates the Respondent's
suspension of licensure imposed above, it shall place the Respondent on PROBATION
for a minimum period of THREE (3) YEARS, and continuing until he successfully

completes the following probationary terms and conditions:

16
Al Within one (1) year of the date Panel A executes the Consent Order, the
Respondent shall successfully complete Panel A-approved coursework in the
appropriate prescribing of opioid medications. This coursework shall not be internet-
based but shall involve personal didactic instruction, and shall consist of not less than
twenty-five (25) hours of instruction. The Respondent shall begin enrolling in the
required coursework within ninety (90) days of the date Panel A executes the Consent
Order. The Respondent shall submit written documentation to Panel A regarding the
particular coursework he proposes to fulfill the condition. Panel A reserves the right to
require the Respondent to provide further information regarding the coursework he
proposes, and further reserves the right to reject his proposed coursework and require
submission of an alternative proposal. Panel A will approve a coursework only if it
deems the curriculum and the duration of the coursework adequate to satisfy its
concerns. The Respondent shall be responsible for submitting written documentation to
Panel A of his successful completion of the coursework. The Respondent understands
and agrees that he may not use the coursework to fulfill any requirements mandated for
licensure renewal. The Respondent shall be solely responsible for furnishing Panel A
with adequate written verification that he has completed the coursework according to
the terms set forth herein.

2. The Respondent shall immediately register with the Chesapeake Regional
Information System for our Patients (CRISP) in order to obtain access to the DHMH
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP) and shall regularly query prescription
information for patients for whom he is prescribing controlled substances or prescription

medications.

1
3. The Respondent shall place a copy of the information obtained from the
PDMP in the medical records of all patients for whom he is prescribing controlled
substances or prescription medications.

4. Panel A reserves the right to conduct a peer review by an appropriate
peer review entity, or a chart review by a Panel A designee, to be determined at the
discretion of Panel A.

5, The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act and
all laws, statutes and regulations pertaining to the practice of medicine.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that after the conclusion of the entire three
year (3) period of probation, the Respondent may file a written petition to the Board
requesting termination of his probation. After consideration of his petition, the probation
may be terminated through an order of the Board or a Board panel. The Respondent
may be required to appear before the Board or a Board panel. The Board or a Board
panel will grant the termination if the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied
with all of the probationary terms and conditions of this Consent Order, including the
expiration of the three (3) year period of probation, and if there are no outstanding
complaints related to the charges before the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent violates any of the terms or conditions of this
Consent Order or of probation, the Board or a Board panel, in its discretion, after notice
and an opportunity for a hearing before an administrative law judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings if there is a genuine dispute as to the underlying material facts,
or an opportunity for a show cause hearing before the Board or a Board panel, may

impose any other disciplinary sanctions the Board or a Board panel may have imposed,

18
including a reprimand, probation, suspension, revocation and/or a monetary fine, said
violation being proven by a preponderance of the evidence; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation;
and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall be responsible for all costs incurred in
fulfilling the terms and conditions of the Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Consent Order is considered a PUBLIC DOCUMENT

pursuant to Md. Code Ann., General Provisions §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014).

 

CONSENT

|, M. Michael Massumi, M.D., acknowledge that | have had the opportunity to
consult with counsel before signing this document. By this Consent, | agree and accept
to be bound by this Consent Order and its conditions and restrictions. | waive any rights
| may have had to contest the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. |
acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of Panel A to initiate these

proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order. | also affirm that | am

19
waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of Disciplinary Panel B that might have
followed any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having had an opportunity to consult with counsel,
without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the language, meaning and

terms of this Consent Order. | voluntarily sign this O and, understand its meaning

and effect. ~~.
Tine Ke od
M

Date . Mi¢hael Massumi, M.D.
Respondent

     
  

 

    

Read approved:

Pa ches

Thomas C. Morrow, Esquire
Counsel for Dr. Massumi

NOTARY

STATE OF 447.2447)

CITYICOUNTY OF: 42444

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this _—“~_ day of Die 2015, before me, a
Notary Public of the State and County aforesaid, personally appeared M. Michael
Massumi, M.D., and gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order was
his voluntary act and deed.

AS NESS, my d and Notary Seal.

  
    

Notary Public

My commission expires; 290.-% 777

20
standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical
and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any
other location in this State, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22); and Fails to keep
adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer review, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40).

6. Pursuant to the Final Order, the Board suspended the Respondent's
medical license for a minimum period of three months, during which time it ordered him
to complete a course in interventional pain management. The Board also ordered that
after the conclusion of his suspension, it would place him on probation subject to a
series of probationary terms and conditions.

ts On May 1, 2013, the Board issued an Order Terminating Suspension and
Imposing Probation, in which it terminated the suspension it imposed under its Final
Order. The Board placed the Respondent on probation for 18 months, subject to a
series of probationary terms and conditions, including practice supervision and peer
review. In addition, Condition No. Three (3) required the following:

Dr. Massumi must comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act,
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 - 14-702, and all laws and
regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland[.]

8. As of the date of these charges, the Respondent is currently on probation
with the Board.

ll. Current Investigative Findings

9. In or around March 2015, the Board ordered a practice review of the

Respondent's practice. The Board obtained ten medical records and supporting

materials from the Respondent that involve treatment he provided to patients from in or
around May 2013 through in or around August 2014. The Board referred these
materials to its peer review entity for a practice review. The Respondent treated the
patients in question with a variety of treatment modalities including various forms of
interventional pain procedures and opioid and non-opioid drug therapy.

10. The practice review was performed by two physicians who are board-
certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation and who have subspecialty certifications
in pain medicine. The reviewers jointly concluded that in several of the cases (''Patients
A through E," infra),! the Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the
delivery of quality medical care.

11. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical and surgical care, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(22), when
treating the patients identified herein. The Respondent prescribed opioid medications
for extended periods of time, ranging from months to years, without sufficiently
addressing inconsistencies in the patients’ urine drug screening ("UDS")? results.
These inconsistencies included positive test findings for illicit drugs (e.g., cocaine,
methamphetamine) and controlled substances/prescription medications the Respondent
did not prescribe (e.g., buprenorphine, benzodiazepines, gabapentin, methadone); and
negative findings for opioid and non-opioid medications he was prescribing (e.g.,
fentanyl, hydrocodone, Soma). The Respondent failed to provide appropriate oversight
or sufficiently address these inconsistencies in his progress notes and/or failed to take

appropriate steps to address them, to include such modalities as terminating the

' For confidentiality purposes, the names of patients have not been identified in this Consent Order. The
Respondent is aware of the identity of all patients identified herein.

? Urine drug screening will be variously referenced in this document as UDS or UDT (urine drug testing).

4
patient(s) from the practice; curtailing the prescribing of certain controlled substances
where there were negative UDS findings; titrating or discontinuing the medications;
utilizing pill counts; requiring more frequent visits with further monitoring or employing
other forms of heightened surveillance; or referring patients for detoxification, addiction
therapy or mental health/substance abuse counseling. In at least one case, the
Respondent inappropriately provided early refills for opioid medications. Although the
Respondent noted that he referred patients for detoxification or counseling, he did not
note whether the patients followed through with such directives.

12. The Panel also alleges that the Respondent's actions, as described
herein, constitute, in whole or in part, a violation of Condition Three (3) of the Order
Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation, dated May 1, 2013, in that the
Respondent failed to comply with the Act.

13. Examples of these deficiencies are set forth in the following patient
summaries.

Patient A

14. | The Respondent treated Patient A, a man in his mid-30s, for back and hip
pain. The Respondent's medical records note treatment provided from May 2013
through August 2014. During this treatment period, the Respondent provided injection
therapy and also prescribed opioid and non-opioid medications.

15. On May 3, 2013, the Respondent prescribed medications including
hydrocodone (Norco 10/325 mg, TID (three times per day)), Flector patches and Soma

350 mg.
16. On June 3, 2013, the Respondent began administering injection therapy
and continued prescribing the medications noted above.

17. On June 4, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that was positive for
hydrocodone but negative for Soma.

18. On June 28, 2013, the Respondent prescribed the above medications and
also began prescribing fentanyl (Duragesic 25 mcg every 48 hours) patches. The
Respondent did not address Patient A's negative UDS for Soma in his progress note.
The Respondent ordered a magnetic resonance imaging study ("MRI") that
demonstrated minimal if any degenerative disc disease other than disc herniation at L5-
S1.

19. In July and August 2013, the Respondent administered a variety of
injection therapies. On August 16, 2013, the Respondent prescribed fentanyl patches,
Norco and Soma.

20. On September 4, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that was positive for
hydrocodone but negative for fentanyl and Soma, two drugs the Respondent had been
prescribing. The Respondent did not address these inconsistent findings in subsequent
progress notes or take action to address these inconsistent UDS findings.

21. |The Respondent wrote monthly prescriptions for fentanyl, hydrocodone,
Vistaril and Soma that were filled on May 3, 2013, May 28, 2013, June 4, 2013, June
28, 2013, July 19, 2013, January 8, 2014, January 29, 2014, February 24, 2014, and
March 21, 2014. By writing these monthly prescriptions at less than monthly intervals,

the Respondent provided extra opioid medications to Patient A.
22. On December 6, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that was positive for
hydrocodone and fentanyl but negative for Soma, which the Respondent had been
prescribing. The Respondent did not address this inconsistent finding in his subsequent
progress note or alter his prescribing of Soma in view of these inconsistent findings.

23. |The Respondent's chart contains a letter to Patient A, dated December 23,
2013, that addresses Patient A's report that he had lost his "prescriptions" while staying
in a hotel. The Respondent's letter states that "repeat events will incline us to assess
the matter(s) otherwise and act accordingly."

24, The Respondent continued to refill Patient A's monthly amounts of opioid
and non-opioid medications on an earlier-than-monthly basis, however.

25. On April 8, 2014, the Respondent ordered UDS that was positive for
benzodiazepines (Xanax). The Respondent did not prescribe Xanax for Patient A. The
Respondent did not address this inconsistent finding in his progress note.

26. Throughout the remainder of the treatment period, the Respondent
administered a variety of injection therapies and continued prescribing the medication
regimen noted above. The Respondent ordered UDS on April 30, 2014, and July 8,
2014, Patient A's UDS findings were largely consistent with the Respondent's
prescribing with the exception of a negative finding for Soma on July 8, 2014.

Patient B

27. |The Respondent treated Patient B, a man in his mid-50s, for low back pain
and knee pain. Patient B is a close family relative of Patient C, infra. The Respondent's
medical records note treatment provided from May 2013 through August 2014. During

this treatment period, the Respondent administered various knee injections and also
prescribed opioid and non-opioid medications, including OxyContin 40 mg TID; Soma
350 mg QHS (taken at bedtime); Xanax 1 mg TID; and Medrol dosepak.

28. On June 4, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that was positive for
opioids but negative for Soma or Xanax, both of which the Respondent prescribed on
the prior visit, May 4, 2013. The Respondent did address these inconsistent findings
such as considering decreasing the amount prescribed.

29. On June 20, 2013, the Respondent mailed Patient B prescriptions for
oxycodone 15 mg, TID, and Soma.

30. On July 12, 2013, the Respondent noted that Patient B's UDS was
"unremarkable." The Respondent began prescribing OxyContin 40 mg, TID on this
date.

31. On August 9, 2013, the Respondent began prescribing clonazepam, a
benzodiazepine, in addition to OxyContin 40 mg, TID (100 tablets).

32. On September 9, 2013, the Respondent ordered UDS that was positive for
cocaine, and for buprenorphine, which the Respondent did not prescribe. The UDS did
not reveal the presence of Soma for a second time.

33. In a note dated October 14, 2013, the Respondent stated, "repeat such
irregularities may be grounds for dismissal from care." Despite this warning, the
Respondent continued to prescribe opioids without alteration or change, and without
employing other modalities to address this finding.

34. On November 11, 2013, the Respondent suggested that Patient B

undergo formal detoxification.
35. On December 10, 2013, the Respondent noted he was awaiting the
results of UDS to decide if Patient B needed detoxification treatment but continued
prescribing high dosage, long-acting opioid medications. Patient B's UDS was positive
for oxycodone, which the Respondent prescribed, and buprenorphine, which the
Respondent had not prescribed. The UDS was also negative for Soma and
clonazepam, which the Respondent was prescribing. Despite these inconsistencies,
the Respondent continued Patient B on opioid medications, Soma and clonazepam
without an alteration in dosage and without taking other action.

36. On January 10, 2014, the Respondent noted that Patient B informed him
that his positive test finding for buprenorphine was due to his use of a previous
prescription.

37, On February 7, 2014, the Respondent ordered UDS that, while positive for
opioids, which the Respondent prescribed, was negative for Soma, which the
Respondent was also prescribing. The Respondent did not appropriately address this
negative finding or adjust his prescribing of Soma in light of several negative UDS
findings for this drug.

38. The February 7, 2014, UDS report indicates that a UDS was performed on
January 10, 2014. The February 7, 2014, report states that UDS performed on January
10, 2014, was positive for cocaine. The Respondent, however, did not note in his chart
that he ordered a UDS on January 10, 2014, nor is a formal UDS report from January
10, 2014, in the chart.

39. On April 7, 2014, the Respondent ordered UDS that was negative for

clonazepam and Soma, two drugs he was prescribing. Despite these negative findings,
the Respondent continued prescribing Soma and clonazepam without an alteration in
dosage and without sufficiently addressing these inconsistent findings. During this time,
the Respondent continued to provide injection therapy for Patient B.

40. On July 3, 2014, the Respondent ordered UDS that was negative for
Soma. During the remainder of the treatment period, the Respondent continued to
prescribe opioid medications, clonazepam and Soma, despite several inconsistent UDS
findings for Soma.

Patient C

41. | The Respondent treated Patient C, a woman in her mid-50s, for neck,
shoulder and back pain. The Respondent's medical records note treatment provided
from May 2013 through July 2014. During this treatment period, the Respondent
performed interventional injection therapy and also regularly prescribed opioid and non-
opioid medications, including OxyContin 20 mg TID, Soma and benzodiazepines.

42. In asummary of care, dated March 28, 2014, the Respondent noted that
he warned Patient C after her UDS revealed a positive result for illicit drug use. The
Respondent also noted that he warned Patient C's close family relative, who was also a
patient. The Respondent reported, "They are middle-aged and this slip may have been
a 'one-off' matter. | doubt we'll see it again."

43. On June 4, 2013, the Respondent ordered a UDS that was positive for
Xanax and gabapentin, both of which the Respondent had not prescribed. Patient C's
UDS was also negative for Soma, which the Respondent had prescribed. The
Respondent did not address these findings in his note or alter his prescribing regimen in

view of these inconsistencies.

10
