 

John F. Eisold, M.D.

May 13-2016

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D33090
MBP Case Number: 2016-0490

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D33090 effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in
the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as
of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my
license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the
“Board’s”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Disciplinary Panel B.

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation concerning my self-
prescribing. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of the allegations and due to my
current health issues and planned retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to
medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these
allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii)
(unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine).
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: John F. Eisold, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and-prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to
contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license in lieu of further disciplinary action under the Act. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board or Panel B to the same
extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license, number D33090, and my most recent wallet-sized
renewal card. J also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of any patient medical
records in my possession in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General
Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my. Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement. I further understand that if I ever file
a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position
as an individual whose license has been revoked. I also understand that if | apply for
reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my professional competence and fitness
to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel B or its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: John F. Eisold, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I voluntarily choose to surrender my Maryland
license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms and conditions set out herein. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

 

NOTARY

STATE OF Ma ny iond.
CITY/COUNTY OF Howlaame iy
OS

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this /.3 % day of May, 2016 before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared John F. Eisold, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal. 4 ,

  

cane : os Ani
My commission expires: 31 /AXig X01

ACCEPTANCE

408 behalf of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland Board of Physicians, on this
f § day of May, 2016, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept John F. Eisold, M.D.’s
SURRENDER of his license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

 
