Paul Prunier, M.D.

 

May zy, 2016

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D33246
Case Number: 2016-0123

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D33246, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in
the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Oce.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as
of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my
license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the
“Board’s”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B.

My decision to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
has been prompted by the Board’s investigation into allegations that I violated the
standard of quality care with regard to my prescribing practices. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current health issues and
planned retirement. If Panel B issued disciplinary charges and this case were to proceed
to a hearing, I agree that the State would be able to prove that I violated Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22). For purposes related to medical licensure, these
investigatory findings will be treated as if proven.
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Paul Prunier, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to
contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license in lieu of further disciplinary action under the Act. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board or Panel B to the same
extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license number D33246, and my most recent wallet-sized
renewal card. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical
records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement. I further understand that if I ever file
petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as
an individual whose license has been revoked. I also understand that if I apply for
reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my professional competence and fitness
to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel B or its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of the Panel B’s actions and this Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Paul Prunier, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I voluntarily choose to surrender my
Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms and conditions set out herein.
I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Goal Conc, lee

Paul Prunier, M.D. ~

NOTARY
STATE OF MARY er

CITY/COUNTY OF [Mont ome

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this a day of May, 2016 before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Paul Prunier, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Notary bi

. . ROSEMARY COSTA
My commission expires: . Notary Public

Montgomery County
Maryland
My Commission Expires November 19, 2018
ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland Board of Physicians, on this
3 [ 5 t day of May, 2016, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Paul Prunier, M.D.’s
SURRENDER of his license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Paul Prunier, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 4

    

 

  

Christine A. Farrelly,
Maryland Board of Physici
