Paul Forst, M.D.

Mark D, Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Paul Forst, M.D., License Number: D33281
Case Number: 2222-0076

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §14-403
(2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, License Number D33281, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health
Occ, §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

1 understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, it becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board’),

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation into a complaint alleging that |
may have inappropriately prescribed controlled substances to a patient with whom I did not have
a treating relationship. Due to my planned retirement, I have decided to surrender my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation of these allegations. I
recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated
as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(22) and (40).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
Mark D, Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: — Paul Forst, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

lL understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, I also understand that in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.
(2019 Repl. Vol.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. | also agree to surrender my
Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if] ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

Lacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. TI understand both the
nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand
and comprehend the language, meaning and terms, and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On F ile

Paul Forst, M.D.
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Paul Forst, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

statzor Virgrwia
CITY/COUNTY OF Che ote of dield

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Moliny of Tv rE. , 2022 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Paul Forst, M.D., and declared
and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was
voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Notary Public

My commission expires:

 
  
 

 
  

Denise Marie Florida
Commonwealth of Virginia
Notary Public
Commission No. 7831690
My Commission Expires 11/30/2023

 
 
     

ACCEPTANCE

nad
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this2? day of Tune , 2022, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Paul Forst, M.D.'s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, |E cutive Directo,
Maryland Board of Physkughs

 
