IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

KAMBIZ KAZEMI, M.D. , * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D34098 * Case Number: 2220-0109B

x * * * * * * * * * * x

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of KAMBIZ KAZEMI, M.D.
(the “Respondent’”), License Number D34098, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t ("State Gov't") § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.) and Md. Code
Regs. (“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS
Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, Panel B has

reason to believe that the following facts are true:'

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the asserted facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a
complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against. the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
I BACKGROUND/LICENSING INFORMATION

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in August 18,
1986, under License Number D34098. The Respondent has retained continuous licensure
in Maryland since that time. The Respondent’s latest license was given the expiration
date of September 30, 2020.

2. The Respondent is not board-certified in any medical specialty. The
Respondent’s self-designated specialty is obstetrics and gynecology.

3. At all times relevant, the Respondent owned and operated a medical office
located in Montgomery County, Maryland.

4. At all times relevant, the Respondent had admitting privileges at a health
care facility (the “Facility”)” located in Maryland.
Il. SUMMARY OF INVESTIGATION

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing a
complaint (the “Complaint”) from the Facility that alleged that the Respondent had
entered into a sexual relationship with a patient (the “Patient”). The Complaint also
alleged that the Respondent engaged in other inappropriate behaviors, which included his
misrepresenting the nature of his relationship with the Patient to Facility officials;
providing one or more prescriptions to the Patient in her name that were meant for his
personal use; and inducing the Patient to file an unsupported complaint about a Facility

nurse. The Board’s investigation also determined that the Respondent had an extensive

? For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities or patients will not be identified in this
document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of any health care facility or patient referenced herein
by contacting the assigned administrative prosecutor.

2
history of engaging in disruptive behavior, which caused the Facility to require him to
execute several “Last Chance Agreements” to address his anger management issues.
Because of the above allegations, the Respondent was referred for an evaluation, which
determined that he is unfit to return to clinical practice.
Ti. THE COMPLAINT

6. On October 10, 2019, the President of the Medical Staff (the
“Complainant”) of the Facility filed the above-referenced Complaint against the
Respondent. The Complainant stated that the Patient reported to the Facility that the
Respondent entered into a sexual relationship with her while concurrently providing
gynecologic care to her, which included performing surgery on her. The Patient reported
that during the time the Respondent was professionally and sexually involved with her,
he gave her prescriptions for medications in her name to fill that were for his personal
use. The Patient stated that when she presented these prescriptions to her pharmacy, the
pharmacist told her it “was insurance fraud and that they would not fill them. The
Complainant stated that the Patient reported that the Respondent informed her that he
“had problems with the [Facility] nurses” and wrote a letter that he had her sign and mail
to the Facility that criticized the actions of a specific Facility nurse when in fact the care
she felt she received had been “excellent.” The Patient stated that when the Facility
contacted her about the letter, she “felt that she had to lie to them because she signed the

letter.” The Patient also reported that the Respondent sent her a series of emails and

° The Patient produced two prescriptions the Respondent wrote, dated December 17, 2018. Both
prescriptions were written to permit 10 refills.
texts that she found were “threatening.”

The Complainant stated that she confronted the
Respondent about the Patient’s allegations, and that the Respondent categorically denied
them. The Complainant also noted that the Respondent entered into a series of “Last
Chance Agreements” with the Facility to address his anger management issues there.

7. The Complainant stated that she had concerns about the Respondent’s
misrepresentations to Facility leadership about an “inappropriate and ongoing sexual
relationship with a patient”; his writing prescriptions in the Patient’s name for his
personal use; his continuation of the relationship with the Patient that in the Patient’s
mind was threatening; concerns about the surgery he performed on the Patient; and his
inducing the Patient to file a complaint against a nurse that was designed to “get a
particular nurse in trouble.”

8. The Complainant submitted documentary evidence with the Complaint,
including two prescriptions the Respondent wrote in the Patient’s name that were meant
for his personal use and a series of electronic communications between the Respondent
and the Patient that substantiated the Respondent’s sexual/intimate involvement with the
Patient.

IV. SUBSEQUENT BOARD INVESTIGATION

Letter from the Respondent, dated October 28, 2019, admitting to
entering into a sexual relationship with the Patient

9. By letter dated October 28, 2019, the Respondent notified the Board that he

had entered into an “inappropriate relationship with a patient.” The Respondent reported

* The Patient produced a series of emails and texts of communications between the Respondent and her.

4
that the Patient first saw him in 2016 for an “OB/GYN” consultation and resumed seeing
him for gynecologic care in 2018. The Respondent stated that he performed gynecologic
surgery on the Patient in July 2018 and saw him in his office for post-operative care on
August 1, 2018. The Respondent acknowledged that in August 2018, he commenced
what he characterized as a “consensual romantic and sexual relationship” with the
Patient. The Respondent stated that he ended his sexual relationship with the Patient
“sometime before he discharged her as a patient.” The Respondent further acknowledged
that he prescribed a prescription-only medication in the Patient’s name on one occasion
and that when the Patient attempted to fill it, the pharmacist declined to do so. The
Respondent concluded by stating that he was “very remorseful about this relationship.”

The Patient’s medical record

10. _ Board staff obtained the Patient’s medical chart from the Respondent. The
chart confirms that the Respondent first evaluated the Patient in 2016 and that she
resumed seeing the Respondent in or around July 2018, prior to surgery he performed on
her on July 17, 2018. The Respondent’s last recorded visit with the Patient was on
December 12, 2018. The Respondent’s medical record for the Patient does not document
the prescriptions he wrote in her name that he meant for his personal use. The
Respondent’s medical record contains a letter dated February 13, 2019, in which he
terminated his physician/patient relationship with the Patient.

The Respondent’s electronic communications with the Patient
11. Board staff reviewed electronic communications that the Patient provided

to the Complainant. These communications indicate that the Respondent, while acting as
the Patient’s gynecologist, made medical decisions for her based on his own self-
gratification or for other personal considerations. For example, in one exchange in these
communications, the Respondent discussed providing contraception for the Patient,
stating, “I am going to put that IUD in you and not worry any more.” When the Patient
answered by expressing reservations about using an IUD, the Respondent responded by
stating, “I don’t like it. We have to do Plan B each time then.” In other communications,
the Respondent directed the Patient to become involved in his professional status at the
Facility. For example, he directed the Patient to contact Facility administration
representatives and notify them of her satisfaction with his professional services.

Respondent’s quality assurance/risk management file from the Facility

12. The Respondent’s quality assurance/risk management file from the Facility
states that since at least 2007, Facility staff have made repeated complaints against him,
alleging that he engaged in unwarranted disruptive or abusive behavior toward them.
Facility administration regularly counseled the Respondent and required him to enter into
a series of “Last Chance Agreements” and counseling to address such behaviors, dating
back to at least 2009. In 2018, the Facility referred the Respondent for evaluation and
counseling for anger management issues.”

13. This file also states that in 2019, when Facility officials confronted the
Respondent with the Patient’s allegations, the Respondent “denies that there was any

relationship between them and that all those related allegations were untrue.” The file

° In order to maintain confidentiality, the name of the program and details of the counseling will not be
disclosed in this document, but the information will be made to the Respondent upon request.
also states that in early 2020, the Respondent agreed to a voluntary leave of absence from
practicing.

Comprehensive Assessment, December 2019

14. The Respondent was directed to undergo a comprehensive assessment,
which occurred on December 3-5, 2019. The assessment determined that the Respondent
was unfit to practice medicine until such time as he completed an evaluation.°

Evaluation, dated January 13, 2020

15. The Respondent was referred for a subsequent evaluation. On or about
January 20, 2020, the Board received the evaluation report, dated January 13, 2020,
involving the Respondent.” The evaluator concluded that the Respondent was not fit to
return to clinical practice.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action,
pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.) and COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7).

ORDER
IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by State Govt. § 10-

° In order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the comprehensive assessment will not be disclosed in
this Order, but the report will be made available to the Respondent upon request.

? In order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the report will not be disclosed in this Order, but the
evaluation report will be made available to the Respondent upon request.

7
226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a post-
deprivation hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, February
26, 2020, at 11:45 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel B,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the
request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-
1301; and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel B immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it

is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel B, and as such, is a public document.

See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

sala hentia Signature on File
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Exdcutive Directgr
Maryland State Board of Physicians
