Kambiz Kazemi, M.D.

Date. HERR eEMET HI, Pod O

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4° Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Kambiz Kazemi, M.D.

License Number: D34098

Case Number: 2220-0109B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.’”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to permanently SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D34098,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the permanent surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging I entered into an
inappropriate relationship with a patient, and that the Board initiated an investigation.
During the investigation, the Board directed me to undergo a comprehensive medical
assessment, which concluded that due to health reasons | am not fit to practice medicine at
this time. On February 11, 2020, Panel B issued an Order for Summary Suspension of
License to Practice Medicine, which summarily suspended my medical license. A copy of
the Order for Summary Suspension is attached to this letter as “Attachment 1.” I have
decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
to resolve the summary suspension and avoid further investigation and prosecution of these
allegations.! 1 recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these

! Upon Panel B’s acceptance of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the Order for
Summary Suspension issued on February 11, 2020, is terminated as moot.
Damean Freas, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Kambiz Kazemi, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine) and (4) (is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand
that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

T understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
Jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that
this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and am represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.
also states that in early 2020, the Respondent agreed to a voluntary leave of absence from
practicing.

Comprehensive Assessment, December 2019

14. The Respondent was directed to undergo a comprehensive assessment,
which occurred on December 3-5, 2019. The assessment determined that the Respondent
was unfit to practice medicine until such time as he completed an evaluation.°

Evaluation, dated January 13, 2020

15. The Respondent was referred for a subsequent evaluation, On or about
January 20, 2020, the Board received the evaluation report, dated January 13, 2020,
involving the Respondent.’ The evaluator concluded that the Respondent was not fit to
return to clinical practice.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action,
pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.) and COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7).

ORDER
IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by State Govt. § 10-

° In order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the comprehensive assessment will not be disclosed in
this Order, but the report will be made available to the Respondent upon request.

? Tn order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the report will not be disclosed in this Order, but the
evaluation report will be made available to the Respondent upon request.

7
226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a post-
deprivation hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, February
26, 2020, at 11:45 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel B,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the
request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-
1301; and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel B immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it

is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel B, and as such, is a public document.

See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

wwiliieues Signature on File

Date Christine A. Farrelly, Exdcutive Direct¢f,
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Damean Freas, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Kambiz Kazemi, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Sincerely, y. f 4
Signature on File

Kambiz Kazemi, M.D. ae

 

NOTARY

STATE orllagf ad

CITY/COUNTY OF

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this32(Staay of Leben , 2020 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Kambiz Kazemi, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent

Letter of Surrender was voluntary.
Mh fh

Notary Public

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

My commission expires, )/) > 7/

ACCEPTANCE

 

be . auty a sf
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this day of Etbrvady2020, I,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PERMANENT PUBLIC SURRENDER of Kambiz
Kazemi, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly? Ekechttive Dasiyed
Maryland Board of Physicians
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

KAMBIZ KAZEMI, M.D. , * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D34098 * Case Number: 2220-0109B

* * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of KAMBIZ KAZEMI, M.D.
(the “Respondent’”), License Number D34098, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Goy’t ("State Gov't") § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.) and Md. Code
Regs. (“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS
Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, Panel B has

reason to believe that the following facts are true:!

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the asserted facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a
complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against. the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
I BACKGROUND/LICENSING INFORMATION

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in August 18,
1986, under License Number D34098. The Respondent has retained continuous licensure
in Maryland since that time. The Respondent’s latest license was given the expiration
date of September 30, 2020.

2. The Respondent is not board-certified in any medical specialty. The
Respondent’s self-designated specialty is obstetrics and gynecology.

3. At all times relevant, the Respondent owned and operated a medical office
located in Montgomery County, Maryland.

4. At all times relevant, the Respondent had admitting privileges at a health
care facility (the “Facility”)” located in Maryland.
Il. SUMMARY OF INVESTIGATION

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing a
complaint (the “Complaint”) from the Facility that alleged that the Respondent had
entered into a sexual relationship with a patient (the “Patient”). The Complaint also
alleged that the Respondent engaged in other inappropriate behaviors, which included his
misrepresenting the nature of his relationship with the Patient to Facility officials;
providing one or more prescriptions to the Patient in her name that were meant for his
personal use; and inducing the Patient to file an unsupported complaint about a Facility

nurse. The Board’s investigation also determined that the Respondent had an extensive

? For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities or patients will not be identified in this
document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of any health care facility or patient referenced herein
by contacting the assigned administrative prosecutor.
history of engaging in disruptive behavior, which caused the Facility to require him to
execute several “Last Chance Agreements” to address his anger management issues.
Because of the above allegations, the Respondent was referred for an evaluation, which
determined that he is unfit to return to clinical practice.
Tl. THE COMPLAINT

6. On October 10, 2019, the President of the Medical Staff (the
“Complainant”) of the Facility filed the above-referenced Complaint against the
Respondent. The Complainant stated that the Patient reported to the Facility that the
Respondent entered into a sexual relationship with her while concurrently providing
gynecologic care to her, which included performing surgery on her. The Patient reported
that during the time the Respondent was professionally and sexually involved with her,
he gave her prescriptions for medications in her name to fill that were for his personal
use. The Patient stated that when she presented these prescriptions to her pharmacy, the
pharmacist told her it “was insurance fraud and that they would not fill them”? The
Complainant stated that the Patient reported that the Respondent informed her that he
“had problems with the [Facility] nurses” and wrote a letter that he had her sign and mail
to the Facility that criticized the actions of a specific Facility nurse when in fact the care
she felt she received had been “excellent.” The Patient stated that when the Facility
contacted her about the letter, she “felt that she had to lie to them because she signed the

letter.” The Patient also reported that the Respondent sent her a series of emails and

° The Patient produced two prescriptions the Respondent wrote, dated December 17, 2018. Both
prescriptions were written to permit 10 refills.
texts that she found were “threatening.”

The Complainant stated that she confronted the
Respondent about the Patient’s allegations, and that the Respondent categorically denied
them. The Complainant also noted that the Respondent entered into a series of “Last
Chance Agreements” with the Facility to address his anger management issues there.

7. The Complainant stated that she had concerns about the Respondent’s
misrepresentations to Facility leadership about an “inappropriate and ongoing sexual
relationship with a patient”; his writing prescriptions in the Patient’s name for his
personal use; his continuation of the relationship with the Patient that in the Patient’s
mind was threatening; concerns about the surgery he performed on the Patient; and his
inducing the Patient to file a complaint against a nurse that was designed to “get a
particular nurse in trouble.”

8. The Complainant submitted documentary evidence with the Complaint,
including two prescriptions the Respondent wrote in the Patient’s name that were meant
for his personal use and a series of electronic communications between the Respondent
and the Patient that substantiated the Respondent’s sexual/intimate involvement with the
Patient.

IV. SUBSEQUENT BOARD INVESTIGATION

Letter from the Respondent, dated October 28, 2019, admitting to
entering into a sexual relationship with the Patient

9. By letter dated October 28, 2019, the Respondent notified the Board that he

had entered into an “inappropriate relationship with a patient.” The Respondent reported

* The Patient produced a series of emails and texts of communications between the Respondent and her.

4
that the Patient first saw him in 2016 for an “OB/GYN” consultation and resumed seeing
him for gynecologic care in 2018. The Respondent stated that he performed gynecologic
surgery on the Patient in July 2018 and saw him in his office for post-operative care on
August 1, 2018. The Respondent acknowledged that in August 2018, he commenced
what he characterized as a “consensual romantic and sexual relationship” with the
Patient. The Respondent stated that he ended his sexual relationship with the Patient
“sometime before he discharged her as a patient.” The Respondent further acknowledged
that he prescribed a prescription-only medication in the Patient’s name on one occasion
and that when the Patient attempted to fill it, the pharmacist declined to do so. The
Respondent concluded by stating that he was “very remorseful about this relationship.”

The Patient’s medical record

10. Board staff obtained the Patient’s medical chart from the Respondent. The
chart confirms that the Respondent first evaluated the Patient in 2016 and that she
resumed seeing the Respondent in or around July 2018, prior to surgery he performed on
her on July 17, 2018. The Respondent’s last recorded visit with the Patient was on
December 12, 2018. The Respondent’s medical record for the Patient does not document
the prescriptions he wrote in her name that he meant for his personal use. The
Respondent’s medical record contains a letter dated February 13, 2019, in which he
terminated his physician/patient relationship with the Patient.

The Respondent’s electronic communications with the Patient
11. Board staff reviewed electronic communications that the Patient provided

to the Complainant. These communications indicate that the Respondent, while acting as
the Patient’s gynecologist, made medical decisions for her based on his own self-
gratification or for other personal considerations. For example, in one exchange in these
communications, the Respondent discussed providing contraception for the Patient,
stating, “I am going to put that IUD in you and not worry any more.” When the Patient
answered by expressing reservations about using an IUD, the Respondent responded by
stating, “I don’t like it. We have to do Plan B each time then.” In other communications,
the Respondent directed the Patient to become involved in his professional status at the
Facility. For example, he directed the Patient to contact Facility administration
representatives and notify them of her satisfaction with his professional services.

Respondent’s quality assurance/risk management file from the Facility

12. The Respondent’s quality assurance/risk management file from the Facility
states that since at least 2007, Facility staff have made repeated complaints against him,
alleging that he engaged in unwarranted disruptive or abusive behavior toward them.
Facility administration regularly counseled the Respondent and required him to enter into
a series of “Last Chance Agreements” and counseling to address such behaviors, dating
back to at least 2009. In 2018, the Facility referred the Respondent for evaluation and
counseling for anger management issues.”

13. This file also states that in 2019, when Facility officials confronted the
Respondent with the Patient’s allegations, the Respondent “denies that there was any

relationship between them and that all those related allegations were untrue.” The file

* In order to maintain confidentiality, the name of the program and details of the counseling will not be
disclosed in this document, but the information will be made to the Respondent upon request.
