Lloyd M. Charles, Jr., M.D.

 

July 7, 2017

Damean William Freas, Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Lloyd M. Charles, Jr., M.D. License Number: D35602
Case Number: 2016-0912 B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to permanently SURRENDER my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D35602 that expired on
September 30, 2016, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my
license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II §§ 14-101 et seq: (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
January 6, 2017, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. II §
14-404(a)(3)(i), (13), and (33). Specifically, Panel B alleged that my conduct, failing to
respond to numerous written requests from the Board to respond to the allegations in the
complaints, failing to respond to the Board’s subpoena to be interviewed, and, failing to
provide the complete medical records of the children of Parents A, B, and C, constitutes
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in violation of Health Occ. II § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii), failure to provide patients’ medical record in violation of Health Occ. II §
14-404(a)(13), and, failure to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the
Board in violation of Health Occ. II § 14-404(a)(33).

A copy of the disciplinary charges is attached as Attachment A.
Damean William Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Lloyd M. Charles, Jr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Furthermore, my license to practice medicine expired on September 30, 2016. I
voluntarily elected not to renew my license to practice medicine because I closed my
medical office in Spring 2016. The closure of my office contributed to some patients
having difficulty in locating me. I ultimately provided the immunization records to the
three parents who had filed complaints with the Board.

L have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Letter of Surrender to
avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes
related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license as if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014),
and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

L affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license, number D35602, any renewal wallet cards, wall
certificate, and drug dispensing permit (if applicable). I also affirm that I will continue to
provide access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4,
subtitle 3 of the Health-General articie.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, a Disciplinary Panel of the Board finds that there are grounds
for action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (13) and (33) the Disciplinary Panel of
the Board may impose disciplinary sanctions against Respondent's license, including
revocation, suspension, or reprimand, and may place Respondent on probation and
under Health Occ. § 14-405.1, the Disciplinary Panel may impose a monetary penalty.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION CONFERENCE,
PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

 

A Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (‘DCCR”) conference in this matter
is scheduled for Wednesday, March 22, 2017 at 9:00 a.m. at the Board’s office, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR
conference is described in the attached letter to Respondent.

lf the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR conference, a pre-hearing
conference and a hearing in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative
Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland
21031. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with § 14-405 of the Act and Md.
Code Ann, State Gov't Il § 10-201 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.).

BRIAN E. FROSH
Attorney General of Maryland

f

Q ZUV wt Klee WN BLOW —

L/@ ||
Date Jan lein Brown

Assistant Attorney General

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division

Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

(410) 767-1865; (fax) 410 333-5831
janet. brown@maryland.gov
 

Damean William Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Lloyd M. Charles, Jr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

 

NOTARY

STATE OF Masylona
CITY/COUNTY OF Fae Georges

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this _// day of _. eel / , 2017 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appedred Lloyd M. Charles, Jr.,
MD., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this

Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

     

>» OLUWATOSIN. OYELADE
Notary Public

g Prins, of Maryland

Ly ce George's Count

My commision ep. Decener 829

       
 
  
  

9 eran
My commission €x]

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this (4 day of Se vig |, 2017, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept Lloyd M. Charles, Jr., M.D.’s PUBLIC S NDER of his/her

license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Christine A. Farrelly.
Maryland State Board of

  
  
ATTACHMENT A
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

LLOYD M. CHARLES, Jr., M.D. * STATE BOARD
RESPONDENT * OF PHYSICIANS

LICENSE NO: D35602 * CASE NO: 2016-0912 B

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT

Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
hereby charges Lloyd M. Charles, Jr., M.D. (the “Respondent”) license number D35602
with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”) codified at Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. Il ("Health Occ. II”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol and 2016 Supp.).

The pertinent provision of the Act under § 14-404 provides the following:

(a) In general. --Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this

subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the

quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any

licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine:

(13) On proper request, and in accordance with the provisions of
Title 4, Subtitle 3 of the Health-General Article fails to
provide details of a patient's medical record to the patient,
another physician, or hospital;

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by
the Board or a disciplinary panell.]
ALLEGATIONS OF FACT’

 

The Disciplinary Panel B bases its charges on the following facts that Disciplinary
Panel B has reason to believe are true:

I. Background

1. At all times relevant hereto, Respondent was licensed to practice medicine
in Maryland. Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
August 11, 1987, under license number D35602. Respondent last renewed his license
on September 30, 2014, which expired on September 30, 2016.

2. At all times relevant hereto, Respondent maintained an office for the
practice of medicine in Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Respondent's self-designated
specialty is pediatrics.

3. Respondent was board certified in pediatrics by the American Board of
Pediatrics in 1989, which expired on December 31, 1996.

4. Respondent does not hold an active license to practice medicine in any
other state.

U. Complaints and Investigation

5. Between April and June 2016, the Board received three complaints from
parents of Respondent's pediatric patients alleging that Respondent closed his practice
without warning or notice to patients and, as a result, has failed to provide patient
medical records.

6. On April 22, 2016, the Board received a complaint from Parent A? by

‘ The statements of Respondent's conduct with respect to the matters identified herein are intended to
provide Respondent with notice of the disciplinary charges. They are not intended as, and do not
necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence, either testimonial or documentary, to be
offered against Respondent in connection with these charges.
electronic mail stating, “| am a parent attempting to get medical records for my children
from Dr. Lloyd Charles, Jr., license Number # D35602.” Parent A provided the names
and dates of birth of her two children. Parent A continued to state as follows:

The office is now physically closed and the number has been

disconnected. | have sent 2 emails to the address | have on file and have

received a general out of (sic) greeting or replies noted below. | am
requesting assistance as my children need the assistance of a Physician

per their regular appointments and for school purposes pediatricians need

their medical records.

7. On April 25, 2016, the Board sent a copy of the complaint to Respondent
by electronic mail.

8. On May 11, 2016, Parent A sent electronic mail to the Board stating that
she is “still requesting assistance on this matter.”

9. On May 16, 2016, the Board sent correspondence to Respondent by
regular mail at a residential address in Maryland® and a residential address in
Alabama’, providing him with a copy of the complaint from Parent A and requesting that
he provide a written response within ten business days.

10. | Respondent did not respond to this mail.

11. On June 22, 2016, the Board received a complaint from Parent B stating
as follows:

My wife and | have been trying to contact my daughters (sic) pediatrician,

Dr. Lloyd Charles, Jr. to recover her medical records because Dr. Charles

has closed his office without notice, disconnected the office phones, and

disappeared without leaving a forwarding address. The office has been
taken over by a different medical provider who told me that Charles had

 

? The name of the parents and children are confidential and are not used in the charging document.
Respondent has been provided with a copy of a Parent/Child Identification List.

° The Board obtained this address from the Maryland Judiciary Case Search. The board researched the
records of the Motor Vehicle Administration for an address for Respondent; however, Respondent does
not, at this time, have a drivers license.

“ The Board obtained this address from a real property search of the residential address in Maryland.
One of the owners of the Maryland residential property has a residential property in Alabama.
moved out months ago and left no forwarding address and that numerous
patients of Dr. Charles also had stopped by the office looking for Dr.
Charles. Is there anyway (sic) that your agency can locate and contact
Dr. Charles to find out what has become of our daughters (sic) medical
records and how we may obtain them?

12.
Respondent.

13.

On June 21 and 22, 2016, Board staff left a voice mail messages for

On or about June 27, 2016, the Board received a written complaint form

Parent C stating the following:

Dr. Charles has been my oldest daughters (sic) Pediatrician for almost 13
years and my youngest daughters (sic) for 6 years. Dr, Charles closed his
office without notifying his patients. | need my children (sic) medical
records for summer camp and school. This is an urgent matter. Please
help me!

14.

certified and

On June 28, 2016, the Board sent correspondence to Respondent by

regular mail to three different addresses, reiterating that a complaint had

been received from Parent A, and a similar complaint from a second parent.® The

Board also issued a subpoena to Respondent requiring his appearance at the Board on

July 12, 2016. The three locations were as follows:

a.

b.
c.

15.

Respondent’s public address and private as listed on his physician
profile®:

Respondent's residential address in Maryland; and
An address in Alabama of a co-owner of Respondent's residence.

On July 1, 2016, Respondent contacted Board staff by telephone.

Respondent confirmed his residential address in Maryland. Respondent stated that the

Alabama address is the address of a relative. Respondent inquired about the subpoena

and whether he needed to appear if he responded to the complaints. Board staff

 

° The Board staff person who was handling the investigation had not yet been provided with the third

complaint.

6 Respondent provided the Board the same address for his public address and his nonpublic address.
informed Respondent that it would depend on the nature and quality of his responses.
16. On July 5, 2016, the Board sent Respondent copies of the three
complaints to Respondent's residential address in Maryland, urging him to immediately

respond to the complaints in writing to the Board. The mail has not been returned to the

Board.

17. Between July 13, 2016 and September 14, 2016, the following

correspondence which the Board sent to Respondent on June 28, 2016 was returned to

the Board:

a. On July 13, 2016, the correspondence which the Board sent by certified
mail to an address in Alabama was returned to the Board. The envelope
noted, “Return to Sender. Not deliverable as addressed. Unable to
forward.”

b. On July 26, 2016, the correspondence which the Board had sent by
certified mail to Respondent at his office address in Upper Marlboro,

Maryland was returned to the Board. The envelope noted, “Return to
Sender. Unable to forward.”

Cc. On August 1, 2016, the correspondence which the Board had sent by
certified mail to Respondent as his residential address in Maryland was
returned to the Board. The envelope noted, “Return to Sender.
Unclaimed. Unable to forward.”

d. On August 12, 2016, the correspondence which the Board had sent by
regular mail to Respondent at the address in Alabama was returned to the
Board. The envelope noted, “RTS” (Return to Sender). Wrong address.
Never lived at this address.”

e. On September 14, 2016, the correspondence which the Board had sent by
regular mail to Respondent at the office address in Upper Marlboro,
Maryland was returned to the Board. The envelope noted, “Return to
Sender. Unable to forward.”

18. | The correspondence that the Board sent to Respondent by regular mail to

Respondent’s residence on June 28, 2016 has never been returned to the Board.

19. On July 19, 2016, in response to an inquiry from Board staff, Parent A
notified Board staff that she had just received a copy of her children’s “shot record.”

20. On September 13, 2016, Board staff sent an electronic mail to
Respondent regarding Parent B’s request for his daughter’s medical records, stating
that Parent B had yet to receive the records that were requested in June 2016. Board
staff notified Respondent that if the requested records are not provided on or before
September 19, 2016, the matter will be presented to a Panel of the Board for a vote to
charge under Health Occupations Article || § 14-404(a)(13)(failure to cooperate.)

21. | Respondent did not respond to the electronic mail.

22. On September 26, 2016, Parent B informed Board staff that he has not
received his child’s medical records from Respondent

23. To date, Respondent has not responded to the three complaints as
lawfully requested by the Board; has failed to appear at the Board pursuant to the July
12, 2016 subpoena, and has not provided the complete medical records of the children
of Parents A, B, orC .

lil. Summary of Allegations

24. Respondent's conduct, including but not limited to failing to respond to
numerous written requests from the Board to respond to the allegations in the
complaints, failing to respond to the Board’s subpoena to be interviewed, and, failing to
provide the complete medical records of the children of Parents A, B, and C, constitutes
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii), failure to provide patients’ medical record in violation of Health Occ. II §
14-404(a)(13), and, failure to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the

Board in violation of Health Occ. II § 14-404(a)(33).
