Howard S. Hessan, M.D.

Date. APTil 7, 2022 —
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair

Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4” Fioor

Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Howard S. Hessan, M.D. License Number: D3647]
Case Number: 2222-0069

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

‘Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §14-403
(2021 Repl..Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, License Number D36471, effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender
of my. license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health
Oce. §§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, it becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

1 acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice, based on a
complaint that alleged that I may have health issues affecting my ability to practice medicine
safely. Due to my current health condition and retirement, | have decided to surrender my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation of these allegations.
I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be
treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. §
14-404(a) (4).

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair and Member of Disciplinary Pane! B
RE: Howard S. Hessan, M.D.

’ Letter of Surrender

Page 2

of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s
investigative. findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which 1 would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
other substantive and procedural Protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit coutt.

ot ‘understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event 1
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state dr jutisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the ‘same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code‘Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.

(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action
by Panel B.

T-affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. 1 also agree to surrender my

Controlled Dangerous Substance’ Registration to the Office of Controlléd Substances
Administration, -

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. 1 further understand that if I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that 1 have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand
and comprehend the language, meaning and terms, and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

Howard S. Hessan WL.D.
Damean W. B. Freas, D.O., Chair and Member of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Howard S. Hessan, M. D.
Letter of Surrender

Page 3
NOTARY
STATE OF DN pL An b
CITY/COUNTY OF Hou tA
1 HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 3 3 day of _AARIL - ___, 2022 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Howard s. Hessan, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender
was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

   

Notary Public

My comunission expffes: — pavid A. Marks ° “7

Notary Public State of Maryland
My Commission Expires 4/16/2023

LL al
ACCEPTANCE
7. "7
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this _/ day of 7 XVI, 2022, L
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Howard § Hessan, MD MD.’ s license

to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
e e
Signature on r ile
Christine A. Farr ell, 5 Bxechtivg Director
Maryland Board of Physici
