Damean W. E. Freas, D,.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Krishan Singal, M.D., License Number: D36900
Case Number: 7722-0066B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §
14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D36900, effective
immediately. I understand that wpon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 er
seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

[understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”.

I acknowledge that on February 24, 2022, Panel B issued a Final Decision and
Order (the “Order”) in which it found that I was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), Pursuant to the
Order, Panel B reprimanded me, placed me on probation for a minimum period of two
years and referred me to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”).
MPRP referred me for a comprehensive evaluation with a specialist in behavioral issues
and unprofessional conduct. The evaluation did not endorse my practice of medicine and
recommended that I enter an in-patient program for a more in-depth assessment of my
professional boundary violations. MPRP recommended three MPRP-approved programs
for this purpose. I did not attend those programs, As a result, Panel B issued an Order
for Summary Suspension on October 12, 2022, in which it suspended my Maryland
medical license. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of the
allegations regarding my competency to practice medicine. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ, §
14-404(a)(4)(Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent).

 
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Krishan Singal, M.D,

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I wish to make it clear that [ have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court,

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2019 Repl. Vol. & 2021 Supp.),
and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I
understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation
of the profession. I further understand that if] ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever, Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an
attomey prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice
medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully, I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

 

 
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Krishan Singal, M.D.
Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3
Very truly yours,
Signature on F ile

M.D.
NOTARY

STATE OF Me wulanol

crry/counry or (Lice LUsnolet

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 7“day of Jeb bu , 2022 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Krishan Singal, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was voluntary.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal,

tOveta. P Gecko”

Notary Public

My commission expires: / 9 / Qo a
Notary Public - State of Maryland
Anne Arundet County

My Commission Expires Jun 9, 2026

 

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 245 day of Oelabey , 2022, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Krishan Singal, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,

Signature on File

Christine A, Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

 
