Date: 0 9 | [O [2020

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O,, Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Adela A. Navarro, M.D. License Number: D36991
Case Number: 2219-0074B

Dear Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ,”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D36991, effective
immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq,
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

T understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on May
13, 2020, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(22) and (40). Specifically, Panel B alleged that I failed to meet the standard of
quality care in one gynecological surgical case and failed to maintain adequate medical
records in a separate gynecological surgical case. A copy of the charges is attached as
Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I have retired from the practice of medicine as of March 2019 and to
avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges,

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. 1

acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated
as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
Damean W. E. , Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Adela A. Navarro, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

[understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action
by Panel B.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I
file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position
as an individual whose license has been revoked.

acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender,
I consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering
my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s
actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend
the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision
knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

Adela A. Navarro, M.D. {
Damean W. E. , Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Adela A. Navarro, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF Margdonnd

CITY/COUNTY OF Howand

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this uf tay of Beg lotor 2020 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Adela A. Navarro, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

My commission expires:
Gina Y. Hicks

NOTARY PUBLIC
HOWARD COUNTY

MARYLAND
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES January 29, 2023

 
   

  
  

ACCEPTANCE
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this jo™ IY day of Sytem Sino, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Adela A. Navarro, M.D.’s

license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly! Ekecutive Direct
Maryland Board of Physteians
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ADELA NAVARRO, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
RESPONDENT * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D36991 * Case Number: 2219-0074B

* * * * * * * * * * * *

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT

Disciplinary Panel B ("Panel B") of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
"Board") hereby charges ADELA NAVARRO, MLD. (the “Respondent"), License
Number D36991, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the "Act"), Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. ("Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2019 Supp.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404 provide the
following:

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a maj ority of the quorum

of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any

licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate
peer review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care
performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any
other location in this State;

(40) Fails to maintain adequate medical records[.]

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

 

Panel B bases its charges on the following facts that it has reason to believe are true:

 

"The allegations set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with reasonable notice
of this action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of the

ATTACHMENT 1
The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on July 1,
1988, under License Number D36991. The Respondent’s license is scheduled to
expire on September 30, 2021.

The Respondent is board-certified in obstetrics and gynecology.

The Respondent practiced at a hospital (the “Hospital”) in Baltimore, Maryland.?
On or about October 18, 2018, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report from
the Hospital that the Respondent’s employment was suspended effective October
12, 2018, because of “reasonable grounds to believe that the health or safety of any
patient or staff may be in imminent danger as a result of your continued provision
of services.”

The Board initiated an investigation that included subpoenaing the Respondent’s
Hospital personnel file and interviewing the chair of the Respondent’s department
(“Physician 1”),

Review of the Respondent’s personnel file revealed that in August 2018 concerns
were raised regarding the Respondent’s ability to perform gynecologic surgeries in
a safe manner,

Specifically, on August 16, 2018, the Respondent began performing a pelviscopy

and total laparascopic hysterectomy on a patient.

 

evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with this

? The identity of the Hospital, patients and other individuals is confidential. The Respondent may obtain
this information upon request to the Administrative Prosecutor.

2
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

During the course of the surgery, the Respondent had difficulty placing the trocars?
and was unable to place a uterine manipulator after attempting to do so for
approximately one-half hour. Another surgeon (“Physician 2”) intervened and
completed the surgery.

As aresult of the concems regarding the Respondent’s judgment and skill, including
those expressed subsequent to the August 16, 2018 surgery, the Respondent was
placed on a three-month Focused Professional Practice Evaluation during which
time she was required to have a second surgeon present during major gynecological
surgeries she performed.

On October 2, 2018, the surgeon monitoring one of the Respondent’s surgeries
expressed concerns regarding her skill and judgment while performing a
laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy.

As a result of the continued concerns regarding the Respondent, the Hospital
suspended the Respondent’s privileges for one month.

In November 2018, the Respondent was reinstated.

In December 2018, the Respondent retired from the Hospital.

In furtherance of its investigation, the Board subpoenaed from the Hospital the
records of the August 16, 2018 and October 2, 2018 surgeries performed by the

Respondent.

eee

> A medical device that functions as a Portal for the subsequent placement of other surgical instruments.

3
15.

16,

17.

18.

19.

Upon receipt of the records Board staff submitted them to an independent peer
review entity for review by two physicians board-certified in obstetrics and
gynecology (the “Peer Reviewers”).

The Peer Reviewers concurred that the Respondent failed to meet the standard of
quality care in one (1) case and failed to keep adequate medical records in the other
case.

The Peer Reviewers concurred that the Respondent failed to meet the standard of
quality care in her performance of the August 16, 2018 surgery because of her
apparent unfamiliarity with the surgical instruments and non-standard surgical
techniques,

The Peer Reviewers did not concur that the Respondent failed to meet the standard
of quality care during the October 2, 2018 surgical procedure; they concurred
however that the Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records regarding the
procedure. Specifically, the Peer Reviewers agreed that the Respondent’s notes
were scant and failed to include documentation of pathology or a discharge
summary.

The Respondent’s actions, as outlined above, constitute evidence that the
Respondent failed to meet the standard of quality medical care in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) and/or failed to keep adequate medical records in violation of

Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40).
NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS
If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel finds that there are grounds for action under Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) and/or (40), it may impose disciplinary sanctions against the
Respondent’s license in accordance with the Board’s regulations under Md. Code Regs.
10.32.03.17 and 10.32.03.18, including revocation, suspension, or reprimand and may

place the Respondent on probation. The Panel may, in addition to one or more of the

sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION

A Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (“DCCR”) Conference in this matter is
scheduled for Wednesday, August 26, 2020, at 9:00 a.m. at the Board’s office, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR is
described in the attached letter to the Respondent. If this matter is not resolved on terms

accepted by Panel A, an evidentiary hearing will be scheduled.

BRIAN E. FROSH
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MARYLAND

mn
May 13, 2020 Dale,
Date Victoria H. Pepper
Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor
Maryland Office of the Attorney General

Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division

300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

(410) 767-1873
vicki.pepper@maryland.gov

5
