 

Rita Judita Kolycius. M.D.

Date: Fergus %|20

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Rita Judita Kolycius, M.D., License Number: D37463

Case Number: 2229-0035 A
Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), Ihave decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number: D37463, effective
immediately. 1 understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef
seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that J am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation that found the following:
On September 21, 2018, I completed the 2018 license renewal application. In this
application, I checked that I had completed the Criminal History Records Check
(“CHRC”), but in fact I did not complete the process. On January 22, March 6 and May
28, 2019, the Board notified me that it had not received the CHRC results and offered me
ten days to provide the requested information. I have decided to surrender my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these allegations and because I no longer wish to pursue renewal of my Maryland
license, due to the fact that 1 no longer reside in the United States. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § [4-
404(a)(42), (“Fails to submit to a criminal history records check under §14-308.1 of this
title.)
 Arun'Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Rita Judita Kolycius, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. | do not wish to contest these allegations. | understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event | would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

1 further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. - In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Pane! A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv tualy vébes,

Signature on File

Rita Judita Kolycius, M.D.
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Rita Judita Kolycius, M.D.

Letter of Surrender

Page 3
NOTARY
Pravinee
~SFATE OF _Onyjeryo
CITY/COUNTY OF Simcoe
eee 9370
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this en day of fe

bey 2 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Rita Judita Kolycius
M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

  
  

Public
My commission expires: N | f

s & Keaasettenn, | < a
Barrister, Solicitor & Notary fi). .
BESSE MERRIFIELD & COWAN :.>
Collingwood, Ontario = = = 3
x3

ACCEPTANCE

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Rita Judita Kolycius,
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

 

‘4
i \ AN 0 "
cae a KOKO? - SNE ee”
