IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

HASAN H. BABATURK, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number D37592 * Case Number 2219-0129 A

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
PROCEDURAL HISTORY

On November 7, 2018, Hasan H. Babaturk, M.D., pled guilty to, and was convicted of,
one count of Distribution of a Controlled Dangerous Substance (Fentanyl), in violation of
Maryland Code Ann., Crim. Law § 5-602, and one count of Unlawful Prescription of a
Controlled Dangerous Substance by Provider (Fentanyl), in violation of Crim. Law § 5-902(c), in
the Circuit Court for Harford County (Case No, 12-K-17-001101). On January 16, 2019, Dr.
Babaturk was sentenced to twenty years with all but three years suspended as to Count 7,
Distribution of CDS. As to Count 18, Unlawful Prescription of CDS, Dr. Babaturk was
sentenced to two years to be served consecutively, all suspended. Dr. Babaturk was also placed
on five years of supervised probation with terms and conditions to follow upon his release, He
was ordered to pay $10,145 in restitution and fines. Dr. Babaturk did not appeal his convictions
and the time for filing an appeal has passed.

On October 4, 2019, the Office of the Attomey General filed with Disciplinary Panel A
(“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (“Board”) a Petition to Revoke Dr.
Babaturk’s license to practice medicine, pursuant to § 14-404(b)(2) of the Health Occupations
Article, which provides:

After completion of the appellate process if the conviction has not been reversed
or the plea has not been set aside with respect to a crime involving moral
turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation of a license on the
certification by the Office of the Attorney General.

Attached to the Petition were certified copies of the indictment, case summary with docket
entries, transcript of proceedings, and commitment record and a show cause order mandating that
Dr. Babaturk show cause in writing, on or before November 6, 2019, if there was any reason
why his license to practice medicine should not be revoked. On November 6, 2019, the Board
received a fax from Dr. Babaturk stating that he would like to defend himself “and leave ali
options open including court.” To the extent that Dr. Babaturk’s request to defend himself may
be interpreted as a request for a hearing, Panel A declines to grant Dr. Babaturk’s request for a
hearing pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(3), which states that the Panel’s decision on whether
_ to grant a hearing is discretionary based on the existence of genuine issues of material facts or

law,

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel A issues this Final

Decision and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:

lL. Dr. Babaturk was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on October 24, 1988, having been issued License Number D37592, Dr,
Babaturk’s licensed expired September 30, 2016.

2. On July 25, 2017, Dr. Babaturk was indicted in the Circuit Court for Harford
County in State of Maryland v. Hasan H. Babaturk, case number 12-K-17-
001101, on ten counts of Distribution of Controlled Dangerous Substances, ten
counts of Unlawful Prescription of Controlled Dangerous Substances by Provider,
and one count of Keeping a Common Nuisance.

' Pursuant to Section 14-403 of the Health Occupations Article, the license of an individual regulated by the Board
“may [not] lapse by operation of law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” Md.
Code. Ann., Health Occ. § 14-403(a). Dr. Babaturk’s license was summarily suspended on February 25, 2016 and
charges were pending; therefore, the Board retained its jurisdiction over Dr. Babaturk’s license.
? Section 5-602 of the Criminal Law Article provides, in pertinent part: “Except as otherwise provided in this title, a

On November 7, 2018, Dr. Babaturk entered a plea of guilty to one count of
Distribution of a Controlled Dangerous Substance (Fentanyl), in violation of
Maryland Code Ann., Crim. Law § 5-602,? and one count of Unlawful
Prescription of a Controlled Dangerous Substance by Provider (Fentanyl), in
violation of Maryland Code Ann., Crim. Law § 5-902(c).? The remaining counts
were nolle prossed. During the plea hearing, the Assistant Attorney General
recited the following facts in support of the plea:

With respect to Count 7 and Count 18 of the indictment, if this matter
were to go to trial, the State would call detectives from the Baltimore County
Police Department who would testify that between October and November 2015,
they received numerous complaints from pharmacists in the Harford and
Baltimore County area complaining about Dr. Babaturk’s prescribing. They
would testify that between October and January — October of 2015 to January
2016 they conducted surveillance of Dr. Babaturk. The State would offer the
surveillance tape footage into evidence which showed that, between that time, Dr.
Babaturk drove around in his SUV to various locations to meet purported clients
and to provide narcotic prescriptions for approximately $250 in cash,

1n February of 2016, Baltimore County, as well as Harford County Police
Department, conducted a search and seizure warrant on Dr. Babaturk’s residence.

They recovered numerous documents, composition books, notepads, and other
miscellaneous documents.

The State would call one of Dr. Babaturk’s patients (“Patient A”)...
[Patient A] would testify that she met Dr. Babaturk in January of 2015 at her
house where she was seeking treatment for chronic back pain that she had.
{Patient A] would testify that she had seen numerous physicians previously.
{Patient A] offered Dr, Babaturk her prior medical records. Dr. Babaturk refused
to see them, Dr, Babaturk was, in fact, flirting with her roommate during that

person may not: (1) distribute or dispense a controlled dangerous substance[.]”

> Section 5-902 of the Criminal Law Article provides, in pertinent part:

(c) An authorized provider may not prescribe, administer, manufacture, distribute, dispense, or possess a controlled

dangerous substance, drug paraphernalia, or controiled paraphernalia except:

()

“ For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and facilities involved in this case are not

(1) in the course of regular professional! duties; and

(2) in conformity with this title and the standards of the authorized provider's profession relating to

controlled dangerous.substances, drug paraphernalia, or controlled paraphernalia.
OK

(1) If the trier of fact specifically finds that a person has knowingly or intentionally violated this section,
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 2 years

or a fine not exceeding $100,000 or both.

(2) In all other cases, a person who violates this section is subject to a civil penalty not exceeding $50,000.

disclosed in this document. Dr. Babaturk is aware of the identity of Patient A, Individual B, and Facility A.
initial visit. [Patient A] would testify that in exchange for $300 she received
narcotics prescriptions from Dr, Babaturk.

[Patient A] would also confirm under oath that on January 16", 2016, in
Harford County, Dr, Babaturk issued her two prescriptions. One. was for a
fentanyl patch 100mg, which is what’s under indictment Count 7 and 18. She also
received a prescription for oxycodone 30mg, 120-count. Both of which she later
filled at a local pharmacy. Both fentanyl and oxycodone are Schedule II
controlled dangerous substances. {Patient A] would testify that the defendant
issued the narcotic prescriptions to her without conducting any sort of medical
evaluation, testing, or monitoring.

Finally, the State would call (“Individual B”) who is the State’s expert
witness, [Individual B] is the founder and director of (“Facility A”) in Maryland.
He’s been practicing pain medicine for several decades. He is certified, Board
Certified in anesthesiology and has a subspecialty certification in pain medicine.
[Individual B] would testify that he was retained by the State to review the police
investigation of Dr. Babaturk, including all documents that were recovered from
the search and seizure warrant.

[Individual B] would testify that the defendant ignored all aspects of
practicing medicine when he prescribed CDS to {Patient A] and other patients. He
would testify that Dr. Babaturk failed to properly evaluate [Patient A], including
obtaining prior medical records, reviewing those records, performing physical
examinations, coming up with a diagnosis and treatment plan in order to justify
the initial prescribing of the controlled dangerous substance. He would also testify
that after Dr. Babaturk started prescribing, he ignored all safeguards required by
the standard of care, including periodic monitoring using urine drug screens or
pill counts to monitor patient’s use of narcotics. There should have been an opioid
agreement including the exact locations of when [Patientl A] would fill those —
when and where [Patient A] would fill those prescriptions. There were improper

informed consents. There were no evaluations of [Patient A] to determine
progress.

Finally, [Individual B] would testify that, within a reasonable degree of
medical certainty, Dr. Babaturk prescribed controlled dangerous substances,
including fentany! patches 100mg, to [Patient A] on January 16", 2016 that were
not for legitimate medical purposes and were outside the bounds of medical
practice.

On November 7, 2018; the Circuit Court Judge accepted Dr. Babaturk’s plea of
guilty and found him guilty on Count 7, Distribution of a Controlled Dangerous
Substance, and Count 18, Unlawful Prescription of a Controlled Dangerous
Substance by Provider. . :
5. On January 16, 2019, Dr. Babaturk was sentenced by the Circuit Court in
accordance with the plea agreement. Dr. Babaturk was sentenced to twenty years
with all but three years suspended as to Count 7, Distribution of Narcotics. As to
Count 18, Unlawful Prescription of CDS, Dr. Babaturk was sentenced to two
years to be served consecutively, all suspended. Dr. Babaturk was also placed on
five years of supervised probation with terms and conditions to follow upon his

release. Dr. Babaturk was ordered to pay restitution and fines in the amount of
$10,145.00.

6. Dr, Babaturk did not appeal his convictions and the time for filing an appeal has
passed,

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Pursuant to COMAR 10.32,02,07EQ), a response to a show cause order must be limited
to the following issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b) Whether the crime is one involving
moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the defendant in the criminal matter, and
(d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.” The Board’s regulations only permit a
limited evidentiary hearing on the same issues. COMAR 10.32.02.07E(3).

Dr. Babaturk does not dispute that the crimes he pled guilty to are crimes involving moral
turpitude. In response to the petition to revoke his license, Dr, Babaturk wrote a letter to the
Board stating, “This note is confirmation that I would like to defend myself and leave all options
open including Court.” Dr. Babaturk stated that his answer to the Petition would include abuse
of power, defrauding, and attempts at extortion, but the Board never received any further
communications from Dr. Babaturk. Dr. Babaturk did not request an evidentiary hearing, but to
the extent that Dr. Babaturk’s request to defend himself may be interpreted as a request for a
hearing, Panel A declines to grant Dr. Babaturk’s request for a hearing, pursuant to COMAR

10.32.02.07 E(3). As determined by the panel, no genuine issues of material fact or law exist in

this case. Jd.
Dr. Babaturk did not present any evidence or argument to address any of the limited
issues that were permitted to be raised in the response. See COMAR 10,32.02.07E(2).
Consideration of any mitigating factors is prohibited by the Board’s regulations and the
underlying convictions cannot be collaterally attacked before the Board. See COMAR
10.32.02.07E(2)(d); Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 487 (2005)
(“[A]ppellant cannot now collaterally attack the conclusive final judgment of the criminal court
in his case. ... To the contrary, the . . . court’s final judgment is conclusive proof of [appellant’s]
guilt of the crime charged,”) (internal quotation marks and citations omitted). This aligns with
the intent of the statute to “direct[] summary treatment of a charge based on the conviction of a
crime involving moral’ turpitude[.|” Maryland Board of Physician Quality Assurance vy.
Felsenberg, 351 Md. 288, 304 (1998). The only issue for Panel A to resolve, therefore, is
whether distribution of CDS and prescribing CDS not in the course of regular professional duties
and not in conformance with Title 5 of the Criminal Law Article and the standards of the
authorized provider’s profession are crimes involving moral turpitude.

Although violations of the Maryland Controlled Substances Act “will ordinarily involve
moral turpitude, each case must be decided on its own facts.” Attorney Grievance Comm’n of
Maryland v. Proctor, 309 Md. 412, 419 (1987) (holding that possession of marijuana with intent
to distribute is a crime of moral turpitude). Through his guilty plea, Dr. Babaturk admitted to
knowingly and intentionally issuing prescriptions for and distributing CDS not in accordance
with his regular professional duties and outside of the standards of the medical profession. Dr.
Babaturk’s conduct was not just outside of the acceptable standards of medical practice; it was

, illegal and constituted a crime of moral turpitude. The Maryland Court of Appeals has defined

moral turpitude as “importing an act of baseness, vileness or depravity in the private and social
duties which a man owes to his fellow men, or to society in general, contrary to the accepted and
customary rule of right and duty between man and man.” Attorney Grievance Comm'n of Md. v.
Walman, 280 Md. 453, 459 (1977) (internal quotation marks omitted).

Health Occ. §14-404(b)(2), gives explicit authority. to a disciplinary panel to determine
what types of crimes are crimes of moral turpitude for licensing and disciplinary purposes,
“(Moral turpitude” is more broadly defined with respect to Board licensure and discipline than
in a witness impeachment context. See Ricketts v, State, 291 Md. 701, 711-12 (1981) (“[W]hat
constitutes a crime of moral turpitude may involve different considerations compelling different
results in different circumstances.”); Oltman, 162 Md. App. at 483 (“in the context of a licensing
board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the concent of moral turpitude is rather broad.”). In
that context, the term moral turpitude “strikes the broader chord of public confidence in the
administration of government. That is, a person who has credibility to testify [at trial] may not
have the public’s confidence to practice certain professions[.]” Stidwell v. Maryland State Bd. of
’ Chiropractic Exam’rs, 144 Md. App. 613, 619 (2002). ‘

In prescribing and distributing fentanyl outside of the standards of the medical
profession, Dr. Babaturk’s criminal conduct showed such disregard for social norms and the
ethical standards of the medical profession that he undermined the public’s confidence in the
profession. See Stidwell, 144 Md. App. at 619 (a criminal offense that undermines the public’s
confidence in a profession may be a crime of moral turpitude if determined by the appropriate
licensing board). In the Panel’s view, Dr. Babaturk acted “contrary to the accepted and
customary rule of right and duty” that he owes to his fellow citizens. in the State of Maryland

and, as such, his convictions constituted crimes involving moral turpitude. Walman, 280 Md. at

459.
Health Oce. §14-404(b)(2) mandates the automatic revocation of a physician’s medical
license when a disciplinary panel concludes that a physician was convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude. The time for filing an appeal has passed, thus the revocation of Dr. Babaturk’s
license to practice medicine is required under that provision,

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the license of Hasan H. Babaturk, M.D. to practice medicine in
Maryland, license number D37592, is REVOKED, as mandated by Health Occ. §14-404(b)(2);
and it is further

ORDERED that the Order of Summary Suspension of Dr. Babaturk’s License to Practice
Medicine, imposed on February 25, 2016, and continued on March 9, 2016, is terminated as

moot; and it is further

ORDERED that this final decision and order is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT.

01(23 020 Signature on File

Christine A. Fartélly, Executive Diregfdr
Maryland State Board ‘of Physicians
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr, Babaturk has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of his Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure,

If Dr. Babaturk files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:

Stacey M. Darin

Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21261
