June E. Breiner, M.D,

Date: Febvuniy le 2025

Damean W.E.Freas., D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4% Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
June E, Breiner, M.D.
License Number: D40208
Case Number: 7723-0001

Dear Dr, Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D40208, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice medicine, with or
without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation based upon a complaint
received from the Maryland Office of Controlled Substances Administration (‘OCSA”)
which alleged that I inappropriately prescribed controlled dangerous substances. On
January 21, 2022, Panel B issued charges alleging that I failed to meet appropriate
standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical
and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other
location in this State; and failed to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review[.], in violation of Health Occ.§ 14-404(a)(22) and (40). As a
resolution to the charges, I entered into a Consent Order with Panel B on July 12, 2022,
that concluded, as a matter of law, that I violated the disciplinary grounds alleged, Health
Oce.§ 14-404(a)(22) and (40). The Consent Order reprimanded my license to practice
medicine in. the State of Maryland, placed me on probation for a minimum of two (2)
Damean W.E.Freas., D.O., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: June E, Breiner, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

years and required that I comply with certain terms and conditions. These terms and
conditions permanently prohibited me from prescribing and dispensing all opioids,
required that I provide the Board with an affidavit verifying that I have not prescribed any
opioids in the past year on every January 31st if I hold a Maryland medical license, and
required that I take and successfully complete courses in the appropriate prescribing of
CDS and medical record-keeping within six (6) months of the effective date of the
Consent Order, or by January 12, 2023. A copy of the Consent Order is attached.

I acknowledge that I failed to complete the required courses prior to January 12,
2023. Additionally, I acknowledge that on July 13, 2022 and on October 27, 2022, the:
Board sent me correspondence advising me of the Consent Order’s course requirements
along with a Board-approved course list including the course due date.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I have retired from medical practice and to avoid Prosecution for,
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am’
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court. .

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a.
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,-Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

I affirm that I have already provided access to and copies of patient medical
records to my patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. :
I also agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office
of Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants.
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I
understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
(m) The Respondent failed to adequately document or substantiate that a patient was
not misusing CDS (Patient 7);
(n) The Respondent failed to adequately document or justify the reason for dosing

increases in opioid prescriptions (Patient 1, 4);

 

(co) The Respondent inappropriately utilized an extended-release opioid in conjunction
with immediate-release opioids and benzodiazepines in a manner that could promote
additional patient risk (Patient 9); and

(p) | The Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records. The Respondent’s
records are handwritten, disorganized, lack chronicity and are sometimes illegible. The
Respondent failed to adequately or consistently document her patients’ past medical
histories, pain complaints, physical examinations, medication histories, a medication
profile with dosing, compliance and a treatment plan.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based upon the findings of fact, Panel B concludes that the Respondent: failed to meet
appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical
and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location
in this State, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22); and failed to keep adequate medical
records as determined by appropriate peer review, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40).

ORDER

It is, thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel
B, hereby

ORDERED that the Respondent June E. Breiner, M.D. is REPRIMANDED; and it is

further
ORDERED that the Respondent is permanently prohibited from prescribing and
dispensing all opioids. Additionally, the following terms apply:
l.a. On every January 31st thereafter, if the Respondent holds a Maryland medical

license, the Respondent shall provide the Board with an affidavit verifying that the
Respondent has not prescribed any opioids in the past year; ,

 

l.b. If the Respondent fails to provide the required annual verification of compliance
with this condition:

(1) there is a presumption that the Respondent has violated the permanent condition; and
(2) the alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of a Show Cause
Hearing;

2.a. The Respondent is permanently prohibited from certifying patients for the medical
use of cannabis;

2.b. On every January 31st thereafter, if the Respondent holds a Maryland medical
license, the Respondent shall provide the Board with an affidavit verifying that the
Respondent has not certified patients for the medical use of cannabis in the past year;

2.c. If the Respondent fails to provide the required annual verification of compliance
with this condition:

(1) there is a presumption that the Respondent has violated the permanent condition; and
(2) the alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of a Show Cause
Hearing.

3. The Respondent agrees that the CDS Registration issued by the Office of
Controlled Substances Administration will be restricted to the same categories of CDS as
limited by this Order;

4. The Respondent shall not delegate the prescribing of opioids to another health care
professional, and any delegation agreement with a physician assistant shall be modified so
that the delegation does not include the prescribing or dispensing of opioids;

5. The disciplinary panel may issue administrative subpoenas to the Maryland
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program on a quarterly basis for the Respondent’s CDS
prescriptions. The administrative subpoenas will request the Respondent’s CDS
prescriptions from the beginning of each quarter; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum of TWO
YEARS! During probation, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions
of probation:

1. Within six months, the Respondent is required to take and successfully complete
courses in: (i) the appropriate prescribing of CDS, and (ii) medical record-keeping. The following
terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the disciplinary
panel’s approval of the courses before the courses begin;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that the
Respondent has successfully completed the courses;

(c) the courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal;

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the courses;

2. A violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Consent Order; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions and the
minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has passed, the Respondent may
submit a written petition for termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the
Respondent’s probation may be administratively terminated through an order of the disciplinary
panel if the Respondent has complied with all probationary terms and conditions and there are no

pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further

1 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any
conditions will be tolled.
ORDERED that this Consent Order goes into effect on the date the Consent Order is
signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her
designee signs this Consent Order on behalf of Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity for a
hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel
determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the
Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to
one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and

it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

 

07/izfeozz Signature i =
Date Christine A, Farrelly, Execttiye Director,

Maryland State Board of Ph¥sicians

CONSENT

1, June E. Breiner, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before signing
this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments or
modifications to any condition.

L assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq. concerning the
pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other substantive
and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and substantive
protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to
initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to appeal this
Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and
meaning of its terms.

aleloa Signature On File

Date June FE. Breiner, M.D.
Respondent

10

 

 
 

 

NOTARY

STATE OF __\\womu\oncd
ciry/county oF “Ba lawmore.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this { o day of

Sula , 2022, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State

 

and City/County, did personally appear June E. Breiner, M.D, and made oath in due form of law
that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and seal.

    

 

   
 

INOVA A
SIMONA ate Notary Public
Baltimore County . ; -
Maryland My commission expires: dune 20 , 002s

My Commission Expires June 20, 2028.

   

11
Damean W.E.Freas., D.O., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: June E. Breiner, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel.
considers appropriate for public-safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation
of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that J have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms’
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv trulv vours,

Signature On F ile

June E. Breiner, M.D.
Damean W.E.Freas., D.O., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: June E. Breiner, M.D.
Letter of Surrender

  

Page 4
, ' NOTARY
| Nur aleadd
STATE OF _/V jet (loud) af
CITY/COUNTY OF (if ade.

  
 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this bl aay of fi filer. , 2023 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appearedJune E. Breiner, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 
 

- Notary Public

» 4
Hy Sot

 

Y

 

rt
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this ib day of kb va 2023, I, Christine:
A. Farrelly, accept June E. Breiner, M.D’s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of her license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File
Marfan Bod of yaad
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JUNE E. BREINER, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D40208 * Case Number: 2221-0117B
* * * x * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On January 21, 2022, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged JUNE E. BREINER, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License
Number D40208, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.).

Specifically, Panel B charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of
the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the

disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, or
suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer

review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an

outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this
State; [and]

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer
review[.]
On April 27, 2022, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution
(“DCCR”). Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this DCCR, the Respondent agreed
to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and

Consent.
 

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B has made the following findings of fact:
Background

1, At all relevant times, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
June 27, 1990, under License Number D40208. The Respondent's license is active through
September 30, 2022.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine.

3. At all relevant times, the Respondent practiced at a medical office in Baltimore
County, Maryland 21061.
Referral from the Maryland Office of Controlled Substances Administration

4. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent under Case Number 2221 -
0117B after receiving a referral, dated April 7, 2021 from the Maryland Office of Controlled
Substances Administration (“OCSA”). The OCSA stated that based on its professional judgment,
it was referring the Respondent for “for possible inappropriate prescribing of controlled dangerous
substance (“CDS”) prescriptions, specifically high doses of opioids (higher than the maximum
recommended doses per CDC) and sometimes concurrently prescribed opioids with promethazine
with codeine, benzodiazepines and/or carisoprodol (increasing the risk of overdose death) which
is against the CDC and product manufacturer recommendations.”
Board’s request to Respondent for written response to the OCSA allegations

5. By letter dated May 6, 2021, the Board notified the Respondent that it had initiated an
investigation of her after receiving the OCSA’s referral. The Board provided the Respondent with

the OCSA report and requested that she address it in a written response within ten business
days. The Board also enclosed a subpoena duces tecum (“SDT”), dated May 6, 2021, for ten
named patient records, requiring production within ten business days. The letter also directed the
Respondent, within ten business days, to provide summaries of the care she provided to the patients
whose charts were subpoenaed and records certification forms.

6. The Respondent did not provide a written response to the OCSA’s referral within
ten business days as directed.

7. After contacting the Respondent’s office, a Board investigator, on June 8, 2021,
personally picked up the records and related materials from the Respondent’s office.
Respondent’s Board interview

8. On July 16,. 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the
Respondent. The Respondent acknowledged that she does not have any formal training in pain
medicine other than taking continuing medical education courses through “Family American
Medicine.” The Respondent stated that she does not accept new patients and currently provides
pain management treatment to 17 patients whom she sees every one-to-three months. The
Respondent further stated that although she utilizes controlled substance contracts, she does not
regularly use urine toxicology screening to assess compliance. The Respondent stated that she
“totally disagrees” with the concerns stated by the OCSA and that “the medication [she prescribes]
is absolutely appropriate for each patient.” The Respondent also stated that she will prescribe
Narcan if a patient so requests. The Respondent stated that she sometimes refers patients to pain
medicine physicians “but if they refuse, they refuse.”

Peer review
9. On or about August 2, 2021, the Board referred this matter for peer review. The

review was performed by two physicians who are board-certified in anesthesiology with
subspecialty certifications in pain medicine. The reviewers evaluated the treatment the
Respondent provided to the patients whose charts were the subject of its May 6, 2021, SDT.

10. These patients (referred to infra as “Patients 1 through 10”) were adults for whom
the Respondent provided primary care and chronic pain management, typically for an extended
period of years. The Respondent typically prescribed immediate-release opioid medications (e.g.,
15 and 30 mg oxycodone, hydrocodone, Tramadol) for these patients, often in conjunction with
extended-release opioid medications (e.g. Fentanyl patch, OxyContin, MS Contin, hydrocodone
ER). In addition to the Respondent’s prescribing of these combinations of high-dose opioids (7.e.,
99 to 395 MME) for these patients, the Respondent often also prescribed other CDS, such as
benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam, diazepam), stimulants (e.g., methylphenidate) and/or
carisoprodol.

11. The reviewers independently concluded that in all ten cases reviewed, the
Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care and failed
to keep adequate medical records. Examples of deficiencies include but are not limited to the
following:

(a) The Respondent inappropriately prescribed high-dose opioid medications (greater

than 90 MME) without appropriate justification or adequately documenting such

justification (Patients 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10);

(b) The Respondent inappropriately prescribed high-dose opioid medications, often

in conjunction with other CDS, without adequately documenting or undertaking sufficient

monitoring/oversight to ensure compliance, including urine drug screening and consulting

the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program;
 

(c) The Respondent inappropriately prescribed high-dose opioid medications in
conjunction with benzodiazepines (Patients 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10);

d) The Respondent inappropriately prescribed high-dose opioid medications to
patients without sufficient in-person office visits;

(e) The Respondent failed to adequately document or appropriately address a patient’s
overdose/hospitalization on the subsequent visit after discharge (Patient 2);

( The Respondent failed to adequately document or appropriately address possible
patient CDS misuse (Patients 1, 2, 7);

(g) The Respondent inappropriately placed a patient who had a longstanding and
perhaps unresolved alcohol use disorder on a high-dose opioid regimen in conjunction with
benzodiazepines (Patient 10);

(h) The Respondent failed to adequately document or appropriately counsel patients on
the risks of high-dose opioid treatment in conjunction with benzodiazepines (Patients 3, 4,
7s

(i) The Respondent inappropriately prescribed high-dose opioid medications for
patients to whom she was also prescribing muscle relaxants, without adequately
documenting or conducting an appropriate risk assessment,

)) The Respondent inappropriately prescribed high-dose opioid medications
(Fentanyl patch, oxycodone 15 mg 6 tablets per day, Tramadol 50 mg 4 tablets per day) in
conjunction with two different benzodiazepines (alprazolam and temazepam) (Patient 8);
(k) | The Respondent inappropriately prescribed high-dose opioid medications to a
patient who was also taking a benzodiazepine and a muscle relaxant (Patient 3);

(qd) The Respondent failed to appropriately address opioid misuse (Patients 2, 6);
