Michael J. Quon, M.D.

Date: M rely q, Yo/ 7

Arun Bhandari, Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Michael J. Quon, M.D. License Number: D40253
Case Number: 2218-0298A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Occ.”) §14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D40253, effective immediately. I understand that upon the surrender of my
license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or
without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in
the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender,
I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position
as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and
upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER
of Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”’).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice, and
on March 26, 2019, Panel A issued an Order for Summary Suspension of my
license. Panel A took such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.) concluding that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively required emergency action. A copy of
the Order for Summary Suspension is attached as Attachment 1.

In addition, on March 27, 2019, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against
me under Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) & (8) (2014 Repl. Vol.
& 2018 Supp.). Specifically, Panel A alleged that I committed unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine when I prescribed controlled dangerous
substances (CDS) to others but ingested them myself, and that I habitually abused
CDS. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 2. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further
prosecution of these disciplinary charges and to resolve the summary suspension.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges and to resolve the summary suspension. I acknowledge that for purposes
related to medical licensure matters, that the charges will be treated as proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to
contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the
hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own
behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards, and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other
state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by
the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary
action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that
this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender,
my license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License,
I understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement;
and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the
disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the
integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I file a
petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in

its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have
been advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout

2

 
ATTACHMENT 2
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MICHAEL J. QUON, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D40253 * Case Number: 2218-0298A

% * * * * * x % * * * * &

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT

 

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby CHARGES Michael J. Quon, M.D., (the “Respondent”), license
number D40253, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. (“Health Occ.) §§ 14-401 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.)

The pertinent provisions of the Act under Health Occ. 14-404(a) provide as
follows:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations -- Grounds
(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the disciplinary
panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke
a license if the licensee:
(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article;
THE AMA CODE OF MEDICAL ETHICS
The American Medical Association ("AMA") Code of Medical Ethics provides in

pertinent part:
Opinion 8.19 - Self-treatment or Treatment of Immediate Family Members

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their immediate families.
Professional objectivity may be compromised when an immediate family member or the
physician is the patient; the physician's personal feelings may unduly influence his or her
professional medical judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered.
Physicians may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical history or may fail
to perform intimate parts of the physical examination... When treating themselves or
immediate family members, physicians may be inclined to treat problems that are beyond
their expertise or training.

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant when
physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family members may be
reluctant to state their preferences for another physician or decline a recommendation for
fear of offending the physician...

Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write prescriptions for
controlled substances for themselves or immediate family members.

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

 

Panel A bases its Charges on the following facts it has reason to believe are true:

BACKGROUND

I. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent has been licensed to practice medicine
in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland on June 27, 1990. His license is scheduled to expire on September 30,
2019.

2. At all times relevant, the Respondent has practiced out of his home office, located

at 6916 Rannoch Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, and focuses on research and

 

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the basis
of the Charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete description of the evidence,
either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with this matter.
4.

consulting. He currently holds no hospital privileges. He is not currently board-
certified in any specialty.

On or about July 24, 2018, the Board received a complaint alleging that the
Respondent’s ability to practice medicine may be impaired.

Based on the complaint, the Board began an investigation.

INVESTIGATION

5.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board solicited a response to the complaint
from the Respondent. In his written response, the Respondent denied that he was
impaired, but he admitted to self-prescribing non-opioid prescription medication.
He indicated that his self-prescribing was for renewals and maintenance of
medication initially prescribed by his treating physicians to address various health
issues, and was done simply for convenience.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board obtained medical records from a
Maryland hospital (Hospital A) regarding the Respondent's hospitalization there
in April, 2017.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board issued a subpoena to the Prescription
Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”). The Board also obtained and reviewed the
Respondent’s pharmacy records and prescriptions for Controlled Dangerous
Substances (“CDS”) for the period beginning on January 1, 2013 until August 24,
2018. The information obtained revealed that the Respondent was prescribing
medication including opioid and benzodiazepine CDS to himself and eight (8)

other individuals.
10.

Il.

Specifically, the information obtained also revealed that during that period, the
Respondent self-prescribed opioid and benzodiazepine CDS as well as other CDS
and non-CDS prescription medication on numerous occasions.

On or about January 22, 2019, Board staff sent correspondence to Respondent
informing him that he was directed to appear on January 28, 2019 at a Board-
approved program (the “Program”) pursuant to § 14-402(a)? of the Health
Occupations Article, for an intake evaluation and for the purpose of scheduling a
follow-up examination.

In response, the Respondent's attorney stated in correspondence to the Board that
the Respondent had enrolled in a seven-day in-patient rehabilitation program.

On January 28, 2019, the Respondent was seen for an initial consultation at the
Program, at which time the Respondent signed a voluntary cessation agreement,
meaning that he voluntarily promised that he would not practice medicine in
Maryland until permitted to do so by the Program.

A follow-up evaluation was scheduled for February 15, 2019.

However, on or about February 7, 2019, the Board received notice that the
Respondent had been injured in an auto accident on February 6, 2019.

On or about February 13, 2019, the Respondent provided medical records

substantiating that he had sustained significant injuries in the accident, and

 

2 Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states:

In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in investigating an allegation brought
against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the Physician
Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative may direct, the licensed
physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination,
requested the follow-up evaluation, originally scheduled for February 15, 2019, be

postponed until he recovered.

BOARD INTERVIEW

15.

16.

18.

19.

On or about February 14, 2019, the Board investigators conducted an in-person
interview with the Respondent under oath. During the interview, the Respondent
admitted that he misuses opioid CDS and has done so for several years. He
indicated that during that period, he was able to “detox” or abstain from misusing
opioids for three short periods but inevitably relapsed within days.

During the interview, the Respondent acknowledged that he self-prescribed opioid
CDS to maintain his habitual misuse. He also acknowledged prescribing CDS
ostensibly in the names of eight (8) individuals that he identified as friends and
family members, who would fill the prescriptions, and then transfer the medication
to the Respondent, who used it.

He stated that for two family members (“Family Member A” and “Family Member
B”), the Respondent himself was able to fill the CDS prescriptions he wrote in
their names. Therefore, they were not even aware he was prescribing in their
names and using the CDS himself.

When asked at the interview why he had omitted mention of opioids in his initial
written response to the complaint in which he acknowledged self-prescribing, he
answered, “Because I knew that would put me in an unfavorable light.”

At the interview, the Board’s investigators requested medical records for eight (8)

individuals, plus himself, to whom he had prescribed CDS, according to the
PDMP records. However, the Respondent stated that he failed to create or
maintain any medical records for these individuals.

20. At the interview, the Respondent acknowledged that he “had a problem” with
opioid misuse and had completed the seven-day in-patient rehabilitation program
in late January 2019.

21. At the end of the interview, the Respondent stated, “I’m very, very sorry for
abusing [opioid CDS]...I’m trying to recover.”

GROUNDS FOR DISCIPLINE

 

The Respondent’s conduct, as described above, in whole or in part, constitutes
violations of the above-cited disciplinary grounds under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) &

(8).
NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds for
action under the Act, it may impose disciplinary sanctions against the Respondent’s
license in accordance with the Board’s regulations under Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.09 &
.10, including revocation, suspension, or reprimand, and may place the Respondent on
probation, and/or may impose a monetary fine.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION,
PREHEARING CONFERENCE, AND HEARING

A conference before Panel A, sitting as the Disciplinary Committee for Case

Resolution (DCCR) in this matter, is scheduled for Wednesday, September 11, 2019, at
9:00 a.m. at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215.

The Respondent must confirm in writing his intention to attend the DCCR. The
Respondent should send written confirmation to Christine A. Farrelly, Executive
Director, Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Ave., 4" FI, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR is described in the attached letter
to the Respondent.

If the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a pre-hearing conference and a
hearing in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101
Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in accordance
with Health Occ, § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 er seq. (2014 Repl.

Vol.).

BRIAN E. FROSH
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MARYLAND

3/27/20l4

Date Christopher Anderson
Assistant Attorney General
Health Occupations Prosecution &
Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General
300 W. Preston St., Ste. 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I was represented by an attorney prior to signing
this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand
both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Very truly yours, 4 .
Signature of File
Michael J. Quon, M.D.
NOTARY

STATE OF rul

CITY/COUNTY Mo ata emer {

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this QP day of Ma , 2019 before
me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally adpeared Michael J.
Quon, M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the
signing of this Letter of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

(Debboral, Olojents
Notary Public
My commission expires: October Iz j 2D l q

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this l Sty of , 2019,
I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Michael J. Quon,
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

~

 

Christine A. tI ecutive Direct
Maryland State Board o ici

 

3
ATTACHMENT 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MICHAEL J. QUON, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D40253 * Case Number: 2218-0298A

* * * * * * x * x * * * x

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

 

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Michael J. Quon, M.D., (the
“Respondent”), license number D40253, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Disciplinary Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.) concluding that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

 

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the
following facts are true:!

BACKGROUND
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent has been licensed to practice medicine

in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter,
4,

Maryland on June 27, 1990. His license is scheduled to expire on September 30,
2019,

At all times relevant, the Respondent has practiced out of his home office, located
at 6916 Rannoch Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, and focuses on research and
consulting. He currently holds no hospital privileges. He is not currently board-
certified in any specialty.

On or about July 24, 2018, the Board received a complaint alleging that the
Respondent’s ability to practice medicine may be impaired.

Based on the complaint, the Board began an investigation.

INVESTIGATION

5.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board solicited a response to the complaint
from the Respondent. In his written response, the Respondent denied that he was
impaired, but he admitted to self-prescribing non-opioid prescription medication.
He indicated that his self-prescribing was for renewals and maintenance of
medication initially prescribed by his treating physicians to address various health
issues, and was done simply for convenience.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board obtained medical records from a
Maryland hospital (Hospital A) regarding the Respondent’s hospitalization there
in April, 2017.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board issued a subpoena to the Prescription
Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”). The Board also obtained and reviewed the

Respondent’s pharmacy records and prescriptions for Controlled Dangerous
10,

11,

12.

Substances (“CDS”) for the period beginning on January 1, 2013 until August 24,
2018. The information obtained revealed that the Respondent was prescribing
medication including opioid and benzodiazepine CDS to himself and eight (8)
other individuals.

Specifically, the information obtained also revealed that during that period, the
Respondent self-prescribed opioid and benzodiazepine CDS as well as other CDS
and non-CDS prescription medication on numerous occasions.

On or about January 22, 2019, Board staff sent correspondence to Respondent
informing him that he was directed to appear on January 28, 2019 at a Board-
approved program (the “Program”) pursuant to § 14-402(a)’ of the Health
Occupations Article, for an intake evaluation and for the purpose of scheduling a
follow-up examination.

In response, the Respondent’s attorney stated in correspondence to the Board that
the Respondent had enrolled in a seven-day in-patient rehabilitation program.

On January 28, 2019, the Respondent was seen for an initial consultation at the
Program, at which time the Respondent signed a voluntary cessation agreement,
meaning that he voluntarily promised that he would not practice medicine in
Maryland until permitted to do so by the Program.

A follow-up evaluation was scheduled for February 15, 2019.

 

2 Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states:

In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in investigating an allegation brought
against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the Physician
Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative may direct, the licensed
physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination.
13.

14.

However, on or about February 7, 2019, the Board received notice that the
Respondent had been injured in an auto accident on February 6, 2019.

On or about February 13, 2019, the Respondent provided medical records
substantiating that he had sustained significant injuries in the accident, and
requested the follow-up evaluation, originally scheduled for February 15, 2019, be

postponed until he recovered.

BOARD INTERVIEW

15.

16.

17.

On or about February 14, 2019, the Board investigators conducted an in-person
interview with the Respondent under oath. During the interview, the Respondent
admitted that he misuses opioid CDS and has done so for several years. He
indicated that during that period, he was able to “detox” or abstain from misusing
opioids for three short periods but inevitably relapsed within days.

During the interview, the Respondent acknowledged that he self-prescribed opioid
CDS to maintain his habitual misuse. He also acknowledged prescribing CDS
ostensibly in the names of eight (8) individuals that he identified as friends and
family members, who would fill the prescriptions, and then transfer the medication
to the Respondent, who used it.

He stated that for two family members (“Family Member A” and “Family Member
B”), the Respondent himself was able to fill the CDS prescriptions he wrote in
their names. Therefore, they were not even aware he was prescribing in their

names and using the CDS himself,
18,

19.

20.

21.

When asked at the interview why he had omitted mention of opioids in his initial
written response to the complaint in which he acknowledged self-prescribing, he
answered, “Because I knew that would put me in an unfavorable light.”

At the interview, the Board’s investigators requested medical records for eight (8)
individuals, plus himself, to whom he had prescribed CDS, according to the
PDMP records. However, the Respondent stated that he failed to create or
maintain any medical records for these individuals.

At the interview, the Respondent acknowledged that he “had a problem” with
opioid misuse and had completed the seven-day in-patient rehabilitation program
in late January 2019.

At the end of the interview, the Respondent stated, “I’m very, very sorry for
abusing [opioid CDS]...I’m trying to recover.”

CONCLUSION OF LAW |

 

Based on the foregoing investigative findings, Panel A concludes that the public

health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to

Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), and Md.

Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing investigative findings and conclusions of law, it is, by a

majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §

10-226(c)(2) and Md. Code Regs 10.32.02.08B(7)(a), the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland be and is hereby SUMMARILY
SUSPENDED; and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation Summary Suspension Hearing in accordance
with MD Code Regs. 10.32.02.08 B(7)(c) & E has been scheduled for Wednesday, April
10, 2019, at 11:15 a.m. before Panel A at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation Summary Suspension
Hearing held before Panel A, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the
hearing, may request within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held
within thirty (30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office
of Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt
Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol. &
2018 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is an Order of the Board and, as such, is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2), and Md. Code Ann., Gen.

Prov. §§ 4-333(b)(6).

 

03/26/2014 OLitins (atin del
ecutive pre]

Date Christine A. Farrelly,
Maryland State Board any Sicians
