IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MICHAEL J. QUON, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D40253 * Case Number: 2218-0298A

x * * * * * * % * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board’”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Michael J. Quon, M.D., (the
“Respondent”), license number D40253, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Disciplinary Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.) concluding that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the
following facts are true:'

BACKGROUND
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent has been licensed to practice medicine

in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
4.

Maryland on June 27, 1990. His license is scheduled to expire on September 30,
2019.

At all times relevant, the Respondent has practiced out of his home office, located
at 6916 Rannoch Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, and focuses on research and
consulting. He currently holds no hospital privileges. He is not currently board-
certified in any specialty.

On or about July 24, 2018, the Board received a complaint alleging that the
Respondent’s ability to practice medicine may be impaired.

Based on the complaint, the Board began an investigation.

INVESTIGATION

5.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board solicited a response to the complaint
from the Respondent. In his written response, the Respondent denied that he was
impaired, but he admitted to self-prescribing non-opioid prescription medication.
He indicated that his self-prescribing was for renewals and maintenance of
medication initially prescribed by his treating physicians to address various health
issues, and was done simply for convenience.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board obtained medical records from a
Maryland hospital (Hospital A) regarding the Respondent’s hospitalization there
in April, 2017.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board issued a subpoena to the Prescription
Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”). The Board also obtained and reviewed the

Respondent’s pharmacy records and prescriptions for Controlled Dangerous
10.

11.

12.

Substances (“CDS”) for the period beginning on January 1, 2013 until August 24,
2018. The information obtained revealed that the Respondent was prescribing
medication including opioid and benzodiazepine CDS to himself and eight (8)
other individuals.

Specifically, the information obtained also revealed that during that period, the
Respondent self-prescribed opioid and benzodiazepine CDS as well as other CDS
and non-CDS prescription medication on numerous occasions.

On or about January 22, 2019, Board staff sent correspondence to Respondent
informing him that he was directed to appear on January 28, 2019 at a Board-
approved program (the “Program”) pursuant to § 14-402(a)’ of the Health
Occupations Article, for an intake evaluation and for the purpose of scheduling a
follow-up examination.

In response, the Respondent’s attorney stated in correspondence to the Board that
the Respondent had enrolled in a seven-day in-patient rehabilitation program.

On January 28, 2019, the Respondent was seen for an initial consultation at the
Program, at which time the Respondent signed a voluntary cessation agreement,
meaning that he voluntarily promised that he would not practice medicine in
Maryland until permitted to do so by the Program.

A follow-up evaluation was scheduled for February 15, 2019.

> Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states:

In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in investigating an allegation brought
against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the Physician
Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative may direct, the licensed
physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination.
13.

14.

However, on or about February 7, 2019, the Board received notice that the
Respondent had been injured in an auto accident on February 6, 2019.

On or about February 13, 2019, the Respondent provided medical records
substantiating that he had sustained significant injuries in the accident, and
requested the follow-up evaluation, originally scheduled for February 15, 2019, be

postponed until he recovered.

BOARD INTERVIEW

15.

16.

17.

On or about February 14, 2019, the Board investigators conducted an in-person
interview with the Respondent under oath. During the interview, the Respondent
admitted that he misuses opioid CDS and has done so for several years. He
indicated that during that period, he was able to “detox” or abstain from misusing
opioids for three short periods but inevitably relapsed within days.

During the interview, the Respondent acknowledged that he self-prescribed opioid
CDS to maintain his habitual misuse. He also acknowledged prescribing CDS
ostensibly in the names of eight (8) individuals that he identified as friends and
family members, who would fill the prescriptions, and then transfer the medication
to the Respondent, who used it.

He stated that for two family members (“Family Member A” and “Family Member
B”), the Respondent himself was able to fill the CDS prescriptions he wrote in
their names. Therefore, they were not even aware he was prescribing in their

names and using the CDS himself.
18.

19.

20.

21.

When asked at the interview why he had omitted mention of opioids in his initial
written response to the complaint in which he acknowledged self-prescribing, he
answered, “Because I knew that would put me in an unfavorable light.”
At the interview, the Board’s investigators requested medical records for eight (8)
individuals, plus himself, to whom he had prescribed CDS, according to the
PDMP records. However, the Respondent stated that he failed to create or
maintain any medical records for these individuals.
At the interview, the Respondent acknowledged that he “had a problem” with
opioid misuse and had completed the seven-day in-patient rehabilitation program
in late January 2019.
At the end of the interview, the Respondent stated, “I’m very, very sorry for
abusing [opioid CDS]...I’m trying to recover.”

CONCLUSION OF LAW.

Based on the foregoing investigative findings, Panel A concludes that the public

health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to

Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), and Md.

Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing investigative findings and conclusions of law, it is, by a

majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §

10-226(c)(2) and Md. Code Regs 10.32.02.08B(7)(a), the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland be and is hereby SUMMARILY
SUSPENDED; and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation Summary Suspension Hearing in accordance
with MD Code Regs. 10.32.02.08 B(7)(c) & E has been scheduled for Wednesday, April
10, 2019, at 11:15 a.m. before Panel A at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation Suratnery Suspension
Hearing held before Panel A, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the
hearing, may request within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held
within thirty (30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office
of Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt
Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol. &
2018 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is an Order of the Board and, as such, is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2), and Md. Code Ann., Gen.

Prov. §§ 4-333(b)(6).

 

Date Christ
Maryland State Board of

03/zu/2014 Chuptine A
ine A. Farrelly, Exe ie. i

 
