 

Karen Johansen, M.D.

Date:_ 5 [1 li 8
Dr. Damean W. E. Freas, Chair
Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Karen Johansen, M.D. License Number: D41221
Case Number: 2218-0095

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II’) §
14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D41221, effective immediately. I understand
that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual,
with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the
practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice
Act (the “Act’), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of
the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means
that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received information that I withdrew my Oregon Medical
Board application for licensure while under investigation regarding my suspension and
subsequent loss of privileges from the Portland Veterans Administration due to quality of care
issues. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to
avoid further investigation of these allegations and due to my current health condition. I
recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated
as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that, J violated Health Occ. II § 14-
404(a)(22) (fails to meet the appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
Karen Johansen, M.D.
Letter of Surrender
Page 2

witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by
law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in
any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter
of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel-B or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and
willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering
my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions
and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Very truly yours. .
Signature on File

aren Johansen, M.D.

NOTARY

STATE OF Gregen
CITY/COUNTYOF pred fnercce 4

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this ial day of Mae, , 2018 before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Karén Johansen, M.D., and declared

and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was
voluntary.
 

Karen Johansen, M.D.
Letter of Surrender
Page 3

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 
    
   
  
  

ary Public

OFFICIAL STAMP
ANGILO K FLETCHER
iT) BLIC - OREGON
NO. 957927

My commission expires: ep Ye 2021

Be
ARY 04, 2021

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B , on this g day of , 2018, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Karen Johansen, M.D)’s license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland.

 
