Enrique Daza Racines
Date: (\\ (25) 09)
Mark D. Olszyk, Chair
Disciplinary Panel A
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Enrique Daza Racines, M.D. License Number: D42181
Case Number: 2221-0030

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D42181, effective
immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report from a hospital
stating that I resigned my privileges after initiation of a 30-day suspension for deficiencies
in patient evaluation in documentation, including documentation indicating that I had
performed physical examinations when I had not seen or physically examined the patient.
The Board began an investigation into the allegations. I have decided to surrender my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and
prosecution of these allegations and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes
relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these
allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (3ii)
(unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine) and (11) (willfully makes or files a
false report or record in the practice of medicine).
 

Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Enrique Daza Racines, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender 1 am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
1} would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that 1 will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may
impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public
safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. 1 further
understand that if 1 ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both
the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that |
understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Enrique Daza Racines, M.D.
Letter of Surrender
Page 3
Vorwinly weak .
Signature on File

Ennique Daza Kagyhes, M.D.

NOTARY

STATE OF | W

ciTy/COUNTY OF Mont gamer 7
lh
I] HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Is day of i f_ , 2021 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Enrique Daza Racines,
M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this

Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

   

Notary Publie~
My commission expires: A|- 9G _ 2x oz OO, JEFFREY R TOWNSEND
y Pires: O|- 24 3 [REGS —_ NOTARY PUBLIC
g| Montgomery County
) State of Maryland
“4 ~My Commission Ex;
ACCEPTANCE January 29, 2°”

 

“4 _ ;
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 2S eo of \ Joy VS O21. 'T
Christine A, Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Enrique Daza Racines,
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, sane Director,
Maryland Board of Physicians
