IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
KENNETH A. CARLE, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

*

License Number: D42164 Case Number: 2220-0129

* * * * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER
On August 1, 2022, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged KENNETH A. CARLE, M.D., (“the Respondent”),
License Number D42164, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 ef seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.). The Respondent is
charged under the following provisions of the Act:
Health Occ. § 14-404. License denial, suspension, or revocation.
(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,

place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office,
hospital, or any other location in this State; [and]

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review [.]
On February 9, 2023, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel A finds the following:

I. BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant to the charges, the Respondent was and is licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to
practice on August 19, 1991, under license number D42164. The Respondent’s license is
presently active and expires on September 30, 2024.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in anesthesiology and pain medicine.

3. The Respondent owns and operates a pain management center in Baltimore
County, Maryland, where he practices pain management. The Respondent maintains
hospital privileges at a hospital! in Baltimore County.

4, On or about September 19, 2019, the Board received a referral (the
“Referral”) from the Office of Controlled Substances Administration (“OCSA”) regarding
the Respondent. The Referral stated that “OCSA Inspectors have noticed a concerning

prescribing pattern from [the Respondent] over the past several years involving high dosage

' To ensure confidentiality and privacy, the names of individuals, patients and institutions involved in this
case are not disclosed in this Consent Order.
for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material
fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Final
Decision and Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the disciplinary panel may issue administrative subpoenas to the
Maryland Prescription Drug Monitoring Program on a quarterly basis for the Respondent’s
Controlled Dangerous Substances (“CDS”) prescriptions. The administrative subpoenas
will request the Respondent’s CDS prescriptions from the beginning of each quarter; and
it is further

ORDERED that within ONE YEAR, the Respondent shall pay a $7,500 fine to be
paid by certified check or money order payable to The Maryland Board of Physicians, P.O.
Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not renew or reinstate the
Respondent’s license if the Respondent fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; and it is
further

ll
ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. '§§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).
Signature on File
Zf/HU3S

Dat Ellen Douglas Smith L
Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
CONSENT

I, Kenneth A. Carle, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before signing
this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments
or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seg. concerning
the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other
substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and
substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and

meaning of its terms. e e
° Signature on File
S- 3 -202%

Date Kensfeth'A. Carle, MD.

13
NOTARY

Ls
STATE OF _Viok lane

CITY/COUNTY OF Balhimove

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2°°  dayof__—N\ | ,
02,_, before me, a Notary Public of the State and County aforesaid, personally appeared

Kenneth A. Carle, M.D., and gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order

was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WEEN band and Notary Seal.

 

S ‘G Neteeens
s v sere le
S fF yOvAry *
2g * PuBic .
isn. “es Ww (oh) | Ls =
“ny, RE Cow, ws Notary Public

anny

My Commission Expires: 0s | (| Addy

14
opioids/two or more immediate release opioids for one patient and dangerous cocktails of
opioids with benzodiazepines and/or amphetamines.”

5. The Referral further stated that, on or about August 26, 2019, OCSA
conducted an inspection of a pharmacy in Baltimore County during which OCSA
Inspectors noticed “that the majority of prescriptions written by [the Respondent] had red
flags.”

6. OCSA obtained a dispensing report that showed “all prescriptions of [the
Respondent’s] that were dispensed from this pharmacy between August 27, 2018 and
August 26, 2019.” The dispensing report included the following information regarding the
Respondent’s prescriptions:

a. “A total of 47 patients were on the report and 70% (33 patients) were
on an opioid dosage greater than 90 MME’s{]”;7

b. “One patient was prescribed alprazolam Img #60, oxycodone 30mg
#60, oxycodone 15 mg #20, oxycodone 15mg #40 in the first part of
August and on August 26" he was prescribed Zubsolv 5.7/1.4mg
#60()";

C. “Several of his patients are getting high doses of opioids in
combination with other sedating medications, such as
benzodiazepines, or in combination with stimulants[]”;

d. “There are two patients with the same last name . . . who are
prescribed high strength and quantity opioids and the pharmacist
states that they are brothers. One brother gets a daily dosage of 390
MME’s and the other gets a daily dosage of 470 MME’s[]}”;

e. “There are four patients who are prescribed medications that appear
to be outside of his scope of practice. One patient is getting ER and
IR amphetamines, and three patients are getting long term
benzodiazepines[]”;

2 “N{ME” stands for “morphine milligram equivalents.”
3
f. “Several of [the Respondent’s] patients receive their short acting
opioid as two prescriptions, one that gets filled with insurance and
one that does not. For example, the patient . . . was prescribed 30mg
#130 and oxycodone 30mg #50 every month.”

ii. BOARD INVESTIGATION

7. Based on the Referral, the Board initiated an investigation.

8. On or about February 10, 2020, the Board notified the Respondent about the
Referral and requested that he provide a written response to the allegations. The Board
enclosed a subpoena duces tecum and Certification of Medical Records forms. The
subpoena duces tecum directed the Respondent to produce the complete medical records
for 11 named patients to the Board within 10 business days.

9. On or about February 20, 2020, the Board received the Respondent’s
response to the allegations, medical records for the 11 named patients, and signed
Certification of Medical Records forms.

A. Peer Review

10. Onor about July 15, 2020, the Board referred the 11 patient records obtained.
through its investigation to a peer review entity for review. Two peer reviewers, each
board-certified in pain medicine and anesthesiology, separately reviewed the patient
records.

11. On or about November 9, 2020, the Board received the peer reviewers’

completed reports.
12. The peer reviewers concurred that the Respondent failed to meet appropriate

standards for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care for nine out of 10 patients?

(Patients 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10). The peer reviewers cited the following reasons,

among others, for their conclusion that the Respondent did not meet the standards for the

delivery of quality medical care:

a.

Maintained patients on high dose opioids as first line therapy, not
consistent with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”)
guidelines (Patients: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10);

Utilized high dose opioid therapy; high-dose, short-acting opioid
therapy; and other medications, such as Adderall, without appropriate
or sufficient clinical or diagnostic findings (Patients: 1, 2, 3, 7, 9 and
10);

Failed to utilize follow-up imaging to corroborate the need for
continued pain management (Patients: 3, 5, 7, 9 and 10);

Prescribed high dose opioid therapy in conjunction with
benzodiazepines (Patients: 2, 3 and 6);

Failed to implement consistent compliance monitoring practices
(Patients: 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10);

Failed to consider and/or recommend alternative modalities or
adjuvant medications for chronic pain treatment (Patients: 1, 2, 3, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9 and 10);

13. The peer reviewers also concurred that the Respondent failed to maintain

adequate medical records for seven out of 10 patients (Patients 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10), The

3 Through its investigation, the Board determined that one of the patients included in the subpoena duces
tecum was not a patient of the Respondent.
peer reviewers cited the following reasons, among others, for their conclusion that the

Respondent failed to maintain adequate medical records:

a. The Respondent maintained patient records with apparent treatment
date gaps (Patients: 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10);

db. Some of the Respondent’s clinic notes were vague and/or absent
(Patients: 5, 6, 8 and 9);

c. The Respondent failed to document consistent compliance

monitoring practices (Patients: 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10).

B. The Respondent’s Response

14. | The Board provided the peer reviewers’ reports to the Respondent and gave

him an opportunity to review and respond to the reports. On or about December 3, 2020,

the Board received the Respondent’s written response. In his response, the Respondent

stated that the 2016 CDC Guidelines “are erroneously being applied to chronic pain

patients, not just opiate naive patients who were the target of the guidelines.” The

Respondent further stated:

Of the 2000 patients I treat, approximately 150 are maintained on high
dose opiates. That accounts for 7% of my practice. All patients on high
doses are “Legacy Patients” meaning their high doses were prescribed
before the CDC guidelines came out in 2016. . . . In the future, by
following the guidelines for opioid naive patients, we will not have
patients on high doses. Until then, we cannot abandon the [legacy
patients who are functioning thanks to the high-dose opioids
prescribed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that

the Respondent is guilty of failing to meet appropriate standards as determined by

appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care, in violation

6
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22); and failing to keep adequate medical records as determined
by appropriate peer review, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40).
ORDER

It is thus by a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A of the Board hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED
for a minimum of TEN DAYS and until the terms and conditions of the suspension have
been met; and it is further

ORDERED that during the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the
following terms and conditions of the suspension:

a. The suspension goes into effect THIRTY CALENDAR DAYS after the effective
date of this Consent Order to facilitate the transition of patients to other providers
as needed;

b. Prior to termination of the suspension, the Respondent shall provide the disciplinary
panel with the name, pertinent professional background information of the
supervisor whom the Respondent is offering for approval, and written notice to the
disciplinary panel from the supervisor confirming his or her acceptance of the
supervisory role of the Respondent and that there is no personal or professional
relationship with the supervisor;

c. During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(1) practice medicine;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself or herself
out to the public as a current provider of medical services;

7
(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(5) prescribe or dispense medications;

(6) supervise physician assistants; or

(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Consent
Order has passed and the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms
and conditions for the suspension, the Respondent may submit a written petition for
termination of suspension. After determination that the Respondent has complied with the
relevant terms of the Suspension, the disciplinary panel may administratively terminate the
Respondent’s suspension through an order of the disciplinary panel. Upon termination, the
Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of TWO YEARS. During
the probationary period the Respondent shall comply with the following probationary terms

and conditions:

(1) The Respondent shall be subject to supervision for TWO YEARS (eight quarterly
reports)‘ by a disciplinary panel-approved supervisor who is board-certified in pain
medicine as follows:

(a) within 40 CALENDAR DAYS of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent shall provide the disciplinary panel with the name, pertinent
professional background information of the supervisor whom the Respondent is
offering for approval, and written notice to the disciplinary panel from the
supervisor confirming his or her acceptance of the supervisory role of the
Respondent and that there is no personal or professional relationship with the
supervisor;

‘If the Respondent is not practicing medicine, the supervision shall begin when the Respondent resumes
the practice of medicine, and the disciplinary panel has approved the proposed supervisor. The
Respondent shall submit the name of a proposed supervisor within 30 days of resuming the practice of
medicine and shall be subject to supervision by a disciplinary panel approved supervisor upon the return
to the practice of medicine.
(b) the Respondent’s proposed supervisor, to the best of the Respondent’s
knowledge, should not be an individual who is currently under investigation, and
has not been disciplined by the Board within the past five years;
(c) if the Respondent fails to provide a proposed supervisor’s name, the
Respondent’s suspension will not be terminated;
(d) the disciplinary panel, in its discretion, may accept the proposed supervisor or
yequest that the Respondent submit a name and professional background, and
written notice of confirmation from a different supervisor;
(e) the supervision begins after the disciplinary panel approves the proposed
supervisor;
(f) the disciplinary panel will provide the supervisor with a copy of this Consent
Order and any other documents the disciplinary panel deems relevant;
(g) the Respondent shall grant the supervisor access to patient records selected by
the supervisor from a list of all patients, which shall, to the extent practicable, focus
on the type of treatment at issue in the Respondent’s charges;
(h) if the supervisor for any reason ceases to provide supervision, the Respondent
shall immediately notify the Board and shall not practice medicine beyond the 30"
day after the supervisor has ceased to provide supervision and until the Respondent
has submitted the name and professional background, and written notice of
confirmation, from a proposed replacement supervisor to the disciplinary panel;
(i) it shall be the Respondent’s responsibility to ensure that the supervisor:
(1) reviews the records of 10 patients each month, such patient records to be
chosen by the supervisor and not the Respondent;
(2) meets in-person with the Respondent at least once each month and discuss
in-person with the Respondent the care the Respondent has provided for
these specific patients;
(3) be available to the Respondent for consultations on any patient;
(4) maintains the confidentiality of all medical records and patient
information;
(5) provides the Board with quarterly reports which detail the quality of the
Respondent’s practice, any deficiencies, concerns, or needed improvements,
as well as any measures that have been taken to improve patient care; and
(6) immediately reports to the Board any indication that the Respondent may
pose a substantial risk to patients;
(j) the Respondent shall follow any recommendations of the supervisor;
(kx) if the disciplinary panel, upon consideration of the supervisory reports and the
Respondent’s response, if any, has a reasonable basis to believe that the Respondent
is not meeting the standard of quality care or failing to keep adequate medical
records in his or her practice, the disciplinary panel may find a violation of probation
after a hearing;

(2) Within TWO MONTHS from the beginning of the probationary period, the
Respondent is required to take and successfully complete two courses, a course in

9
CDS prescribing and a course in medical recordkeeping. The Respondent may
complete these courses any time after the Consent Order is signed, even prior to the
commencement of probation. The following terms apply:
(a) It is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain
the disciplinary panel’s approval of the courses before the courses are
begun;

(b) The Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary
panel that he has successfully completed the courses;

(c) The courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal;

(d) The Respondent is responsible for the cost of the courses; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of probation, the Respondent may submit a written petition for termination of probation.
The Respondent’s probation may be administratively terminated through an order of ihe
disciplinary panel if the Respondent has complied with all probationary terms and
conditions including receiving four satisfactory supervisory reports and there are no
pending complaints relating to the charges, but will not be terminated unless the Board has
received four satisfactory supervisory reports; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Final Decision and Order including if the reports of the
supervisor do not demonstrate that the Respondent meets appropriate standards of care or

adequate medical recordkeeping, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity

10
