Michael W, Lansing, M.D.

Date: ? cil 2 K LOL j

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Michael W. Lansing, M.D.

License Number: D42827

Case Number: 7721-0071

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D42827, effective immediately, | understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
practice medicine, with or without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined
in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ, §§ 14-101 ef seq. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Permanent
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Permanent Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,

and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
September 3, 2020, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(3)(i)(Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine),
(11)(Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of medicine), and
(27)(Sells, prescribes, gives away, or administers drugs for illegal or illegitimate medical
purposes), I resolved these disciplinary charges through a Consent Order with Panel A,
dated December 2, 2020, in which Panel A found that I violated Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii), (11), and (27), The Consent Order reprimanded me, placed permanent
prohibitions on my ability to prescribe or dispense controlled dangerous substances
(“CDS”) to myself and family members and my ability to certify patients for medical use
of cannabis, placed me on probation for a minimum of two (2) years, required that I enroll
in and comply with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program, required that I
complete approved courses in medical ethics and appropriate boundaries, required that I
Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Michael W. Lansing, M.D.

Letter of Permanent Surrender
Page 2

pay a civil fine of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) within one (1) year, and prohibited
me from prescribing or dispensing CDS during the probationary period. A copy of the
Consent Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order
and because I am retiring from the practice of medicine. I acknowledge that the Consent
remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance
of the Letter of Permanent Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions
of the Order as long as I do not have or possess an active medical license in Maryland with
the exception of payment of the $50,000.00 civil fine, which is due within one (1) year
from the date the Consent Order was executed.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Permanent Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
for failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations, I understand that by executing this Letter of Permanent Surrender
Tam waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other

substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Permanent Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Permanent Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Permanent
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to

surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration. :

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that

[have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Permanent Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
 

primary or regular care provider for immediate family members, there are

situations in which routine care is acceptable for short-term, minor problems.

Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write

prescriptions for controlled substances for themselves or immediate family

members.

On November 4, 2020, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this

DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT.

 

Panel A finds the following:
Background and Licensing Information

1. Atall times relevant, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine
in Maryland, The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
or about January 20, 1992, under License Number D42827. His license is active through
September 30, 2022.

2. The Respondent is board certified in internal medicine with a subspecialty
cettification in pulmonary disease. The Respondent has privileges at two Maryland
hospitals. The Respondent practiced at a pulmonology center (the “Health Center”)? at
office locations in Pikesville and Westminster, Maryland until his employment was

terminated on or about March 15, 2019.

2 To maintain confidentiality, the names of health care facilities and Health Center employees will not be identified
in this Consent Order.

7
3. The Respondent is currently employed at a health care practice in

Reisterstown, Maryland.
Il. The Report

4. On or about March 28, 2019, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
from the Health Center (the “Report’”), According to the Report, the Health Center

terminated the Respondent following an investigation of sexual and unprofessional conduct

allegations.
III. Board Investigation

5. Upon reccipt of the Report, the Board initiated an investigation.

6. As part of its investigation, the Board: subpoenaed prescription records,
medical records, and MMCC records. The Board also conducted under-oath interviews of
Health Center employees. The Board notified the Respondent of the Report and its
subsequent investigation and provided him with the opportunity to respond in writing and
to in an under-oath interview with the Board.

Interviews

7. Multiple Health Center employees were interviewed by the Board and
reported that the Respondent exhibited behavior of a sexual nature directed toward women

at the Health Center.
 

8. Specifically, employees stated that the Respondent: often hugged and, at
times, kissed? women‘ at the Health Center; commented on the physical appearance of
women at the Health Center; danced while rubbing his chest; joked about the Health
Center’s sexual harassment training and the “Me Too” movement; openly displayed and
played with a toy doll of a sexual nature; and referred to himself as “the King.”

9. Two female Health Center employees described instances where the
Respondent initiated sexual contact with them.

a. A Health Center administrative employee (“Employee 1”) stated that
on or about January 11, 2019, she was alone in the Health Center kitchen when the
Respondent entered the kitchen, hugged her, bit her ear in a sexual manner and made
a “mmm” sound. Employee 1 stated this made her feel “disgusted” and she reported
the incident to her supervisor. Employee | resigned from the Health Center
approximately two months later.

b. In addition, Employee I described an incident from 2018 where she
was sitting at her desk when the Respondent approached her from behind, hugged

her, and kissed her on the cheek and lips.° Employee | stated that after this incident

3 Health Center employees reported that the Respondent regularly kissed women on the cheek. Employee 1 stated that
the Respondent would kiss her on top of the head, Additional incidents where the Respondent kissed Employee | on
the lips and Employee 2 on the neck and are discussed infra in more detail.

4 Females at the Health Center included Health Center employees, patients, and drug representatives who visited the
Health Center.

5 The dance was referred to as “the nipple dance” where the Respondent was described as rubbing his chest/nipples
in a circular manner.

8 Employee 1 explained in her interview, “when he kissed me on the cheek but he got my lips because | had tumed
and he was tight there.”
 

she felt uncomfortable around the Respondent, especially when they were alone
together.

c, A second Health Center administrative employee (“Employee 2”)
stated that the Respondent hugged and kissed her on the neck shortly after the
Respondent learned of Employee 1’s sexual allegations against him.

d. Employee 2 also reported that she was in the Respondent’s office
when he grazed her breast while he leaned across his desk.

@, Employee 2 further observed that on two occasions, the Respondent
simulated masturbation in a joking manner while he'sat at his desk.

10. In interviews with Board investigators, Health Center employees also

discussed Respondent’s non-sexual behaviors. Employees reported that:

a. The Respondent behaved erratically; at times he was nice and friendly
toward staff and other times he would curse and scream at staff.

b. The Respondent regularly discussed and joked about illicit drug use
and openly discussed his alcohol consumption with Health Center employees.

c, The Respondent prescribed medications to family members and
Health Center employees. Employee 2 stated that the Respondent prescribed her
prescription medications, including controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”).
Employee 2 further stated that the Respondent made an agreement with her that he
would write her a prescription and she would give him the prescribed medication

for his personal use. She indicated this occurred on approximately four occasions.

10
11. The Respondent’s workplace behavior made multiple female Health Center
employees feel uncomfortable and intimidated and Employee 1 and Employee 2
experienced emotional distress, The Respondent’s behavior also caused Employee 1 to
terminate her employment at the Health Center.

Prescriptions

12. The Board initiated an investigation into the Respondent’s prescribing
practices and subpoenaed records to review the Respondent’s prescribing practices.”

13. The Board’s investigation determined that the Respondent wrote CDS
prescriptions for himself, four family members, a neighbor, and Employee 2.

14. The Respondent wrote CDS prescriptions for himself eighteen (18) times
between December 9, 2015 and March 16, 2019.

15. The prescription copies obtained by the Board showed that the Respondent
wrote CDS prescriptions for four family members (“Family Member A”, “Family Member
B”, “Family Member C” and “Family Member D”, referred to collectively as “Family
Members”).

a. The Respondent wrote forty-two (42) CDS prescriptions for Family

Member A between October 16, 2014 and April 26, 2019.

b. The Respondent wrote twenty-six (26) CDS prescriptions for Family

Member B between June 14, 2015 and March 29, 2019.

7 The Board obtained a report of the Respondent’s recent prescribing history through the Maryland Prescription Drug
Monitoring Program (“PDMP”), which the PDMP provided in response to a Board subpoena.

11
c. The Respondent wrote two CDS prescriptions for Family Member C
on January 11, 2015 and April 17, 2017.
d. The Respondent wrote thirteen (13) CDS prescriptions for Family
Member D between September 16, 2013 and January 19, 2015.
16. Prescription records also showed that the Respondent prescribed CDS to a
non-patient® neighbor? (“Neighbor”) and Employee 2.
a. The Respondent wrote eighteen (18) CDS prescriptions for Neighbor
between September 7, 2013 and August 10, 2014.
b. ‘fhe Respondent wrote approximately one hundred twenty-two (122)
CDS prescriptions to Employee 2 from approximately January 22, 2013 to March
7, 2019,
; c, Board staff obtained copies of the four prescriptions written for
Lg Employee 2 by the Respondent that Employee 2 stated she gave to the Respondent
pursuant to their agreement.
Maryland Medical Cannabis Commission Certification
17. As part of its investigation, the Board reviewed the Respondent’s records
from the MMCC,
18. Onorabout August 18, 2018, the Respondent submitted an application to the
MMCC to become a registered provider and certify patients for medical cannabis, a

Schedule I CDS.

8 See discussion regarding the lack of medical records for Neighbor infra.
5 Board staff identified this individual as a neighbor based on the address listed in the PDMP records.

12
19. As part of the application process, the Respondent attested to the MMCC that
he would complete a standard patient evaluation including (i) a history, (ii) a physical
examination, (iii) a review of symptoms, and (iv) any other pertinent medical information
for any patient he would certify for medical cannabis. The MMCC approved the
Respondent’s application.

20. MMCC records indicated the Respondent certified Family Member A for
medical cannabis on or about August 30, 2018 and renewed the certification on October 3,
2019.

21. «MMCC records indicated the Respondent certified Family Member C for
medical cannabis on or about February 16, 2019.

Medical Records

22. On or about May 31, 2019, the Board issued subpoenas to the Health Center
and the Respondent for the medical records of Family Members, Neighbor, Employee 2
and himself.

23. The Respondent’s medical records for Family Members indicated infrequent
or a complete lack of office visits, cursory evaluations'® and a lack of communication with
primary care physicians."

24. The Respondent’s medical records for Family Member A and Family

Member C regarding medical cannabis certification were incomplete. The Respondent’s

0 The Respondent failed to document full medical histories, physical examinations and real-time patient assessments
that would be required in view of the conditions in which he was prescribing.

I the Respondent acknowledged later, in his interview, that at times he was the primary care physician for members
of his family.

13

 
 

medical records for Family Member A failed to document patient evaluation information
including, but not limited to, medical records from other providers and blood work results,
Family Member C’s records failed to contain any documentation regarding the issuance of
medical cannabis certification.

25. The Respondent failed to record or maintain medical records for Neighbor
during the time the Respondent issued Neighbor eighteen (18) prescriptions.

26, . Medical records for Employee 2 showed that the Respondent failed to obtain
medical records regarding initial diagnoses of conditions for which he was prescribing
CDS. In addition, the Respondent infrequently conducted formal exams, inconsistently
documented conditions for which he was prescribing, and failed to monitor Employee 2’s
CDS use through urinary drug screens (“UDS”) and review of Chesapeake Regional
Information System for our Patients (“CRISP”)/Prescription Drug Monitoring Program
(“PDMP”) data.

27. The medical records the Respondent kept for himself contain self-diagnoses,
prescriptions and referrals for care.

IV. Respondent’s Response

28. The Board notified the Respondent about the Report and subsequent
investigation. The Respondent was given an opportunity to respond in writing and in an
under-oath interview conducted by the Board on November 7, 2019.

29. When the Respondent was interviewed by Board staff, the Respondent

stated, among other things, that:

14
 

a. He wrote prescriptions for Family Members, Neighbor and Employee
2 because it was convenient and would result in cost savings.
b. Health professionals treating Family Member B told him that he
should not write prescriptions for Family Member B.
C. “Tm not a pain management person” and Employee 2 would tell him
what to prescribe “depending on what she felt better with.”
d. He certified Family Mcmber A and Family Member C for medical
cannabis to save money. He admitted that he was advised by individuals from the
Health Center not to certify family members for medical cannabis.
V. Consultant Review

30. The Board referred this matter for review to a physician medical consultant
(the “Consultant”). The Consultant concluded that the Respondent was guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine when he prescribed CDS to Family
Members, Neighbor, and/or himself. The Consultant also concluded that the Respondent’s
“extensive” prescribing of CDS to Employee 2 constituted unprofessional. conduct in the
practice of medicine.

31. The Consultant found that the Respondent acted contrary to the AMA Code
of Medical Ethics Opinions 1.2.1 and 8.19 when he prescribed to Family Members as a
matter of convenience and to avoid cost, and not on an emergency basis.

32. The Consultant also found the Respondent’s prescribing to Neighbor in the
absence of medical records and a bona fide doctor-patient relationship constituted
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

15
33. The Consultant further determined the Respondent’s extensive CDS
prescribing for Employee 2 constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
based upon the Respondent’s infrequent office visits with Employee 2, improper reliance
on Employee 2 regarding necessary prescriptions, and failure to monitor UDS and
PDMP/CRISP data.

34, Finally, the Consultant also found that the Respondent’s self-prescribing
constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

VI. Psychological Evaluation

35. On or about August 9, 2019, the Respondent underwent a psychological
evaluation’? after a referral from the Board. The evaluation was conducted by a board
certified clinical psychologist (the “Psychologist”).

36. After reviewing documents provided by the Board and meeting with the
Respondent, the Psychologist made multiple findings regarding the Respondent including:
It is clear that [the Respondent] has poor psychological
boundaries, lacked a basic understanding of respect for women
employees and his behavior was markedly inappropriate and

unpredictable for a physician’s office.

and

[The Respondent] seems generationally myopic and lacking a
basic understanding of appropriate boundaries for a
professional office setting.

12 Included in the evaluation was a review of records obtained through the Board’s investigation.

16
 
  
 

Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Michael W. Lansing, M.D.

Letter of Permanent Surrender
Page 3

before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter
of Permanent Surrender. I was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both
the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Permanent Surrender fully. I acknowledge
that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter
of Permanent Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yoy,
Signature on File

Michael W, Lansing, M.D.

NOTARY

4 ou t /
STATE OF Maéy Lan
CEPYICOUNTY OF ra /7) more

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this & /day of A/4’/Z , 2021 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Michael W. Lansing,
M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Letter of Permanent Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.
er | pal *f) >
VSex Meche aC
Notary Public -

» My commission expires:

ACCEPTANCE

28 aay of a
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this day of lL , 2021, I, Christine A.

Farrelly, accept Michael W. Lansing, M.D.’s, PERMANENT PUBLIC SURRENDER
of his license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, ake Director
Maryland Board of Physicii
 

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board concludes as 4 matter
of law that the Respondent: is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); willfully made or filed a false report or record in
the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11); and sold, prescribed,
gave away, or administered drugs for illegal or illegitimate medical purposes, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(27).

ORDER

It is thus by an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A
of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is PERMANENTLY prohibited from prescribing
and dispensing all Controlled Dangerous Substances (CDS) to himself or family members;
and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent agrees that the CDS Registration issued by the
Office of Controlled Substances Administration will be restricted in the same manner as
limited by this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is PERMANENTLY prohibited from certifying
patients for the medical use of cannabis; and it is further

ORDERED that on every January 31st thereafter if the Respondent holds a
Maryland medical license, the Respondent shall provide the Board with an affidavit
verifying that the Respondent has not certified patients for the medical use of cannabis in
the past year; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent fails to provide the required annual verification
of compliance with this condition:

(1) there is a presumption that the Respondent has violated the permanent condition;
and

17
(2) the alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of a Show

Cause Hearing.

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION®™, for a minimum
period of TWO (2) YEARS. During the probationary period the Respondent shall
comply with the following probationary terms and conditions:

(1) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c} the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and

comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
Requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. The Respondent shall not withdraw his/her release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive fron) outside entities
(including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including,
but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;

'3 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any
conditions will be tolled.

18
(2) Within SIX (6) MONTHS, the Respondent is required to take and successfully
complete a course in medical ethics and a second course in appropriate
boundaries. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the disciplinary panel will accept a course
taken in person or over the internet;

(c) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that the
Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal;

(e) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; it 1s further

(3) Within ONE (1) YEAR, the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS ($50,000.00). The Payment shall be by money order
or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians and
mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not

renew or reinstate the Respondent’s license if the Respondent fails to timely pay
the fine to the Board;

(4) During probation, the Respondent is prohibited from prescribing or dispensing,
all Controlled Dangerous Substances (CDS), The disciplinary panel may issue
administrative subpocnas to the Maryland Prescription Drug Monitoring
Program on a quarterly basis for the Respondent’s Controlled Dangerous
Substances (“CDS”) prescriptions. The administrative subpoenas will request
the Respondent’s CDS prescriptions from the beginning of each quarter;

(5)the CDS Registration issued by the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration will be restricted in the same manner as limited by this Order;
and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of
probation; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has

passed, the Respondent may submit to the Board a written petition for termination of

19
probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an
order of the disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be required to appear before the
disciplinary panel to discuss his or her petition for termination. The disciplinary panet may
grant the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel, if
the Respondent has complied with all probationary terms and conditions and there are no
pending complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be. given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,

the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent. place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-
607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov: § 4-333(b)(6); and it is further

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly] Expeultive Presi

 

20
CONSENT

I, Michael W. Lansing, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel
before signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions

and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments
or modifications to any condition.

Lassert that | am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq. concerning
the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead,

T acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other
substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and
substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

[ voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and
meaning of its terms.

Signature on File

 

“Michael W. Lansing, M.D,

21
HY

4s AP

ON eG ey
- Febery

NOTARY

 

THEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2) day of

save mh

  

?.-~ 2020, before me, a Notary
Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Michael W. Lansing,
M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his

voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

yo

 

      

~

22
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

 

MICHAEL W. LANSING, MLD. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D42827 * Case Number: 2219-0164 A

CONSENT ORDER

On September 3, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A ("Panel A") of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged MICHAEL W. LANSING, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D42827, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice
Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl.
Vol. and 2019 Supp.).

The relevant provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404 provide the
following:

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the

disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(i) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(11) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
medicine;
(27) Sells, prescribes, gives away, or administers drugs for illegal or
illegitimate medica! purposes[.]

Panel A charged the Respondent with willfully making or filing a false report or
record in the practice of medicine. This charge pertains to the Respondent’s certification
of family members for medical cannabis with the Natalie M. Laprade Maryland Medical
Cannabis Commission (“MMCC”). The relevant provisions of Md. Code Regs.
(“COMAR?”) provide:

COMAR 10.62.03.01 Provider Application for Registration

A. A provider seeking registration as a certifying provider shall submit
an application provided by the [MMCC] that includes:

(2) An attestation that the [sic]:

(c) A standard patient evaluation will be completed and
include:

(i) A history;

(ii) A physical examination;

(iii) A review of symptoms; and

(iv) Any other pertinent medical information[.]

COMAR 10.62.05.01 Issuing a Written Certification

A. A certifying provider may determine that a patient qualifies for
a written certification only:

(2) ‘If the certifying provider has a bona fide provider-
patient relationship with the qualifying patient;

B. The certifying provider shall:
2
 

(1) Log onto the website of the [MMCC] to transmit the written
certification to the [MMCC][.]

Panel A also charged the Respondent with unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, One form of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine is “disruptive
behavior.” The American Medical Association (the “AMA”) and The Joint Commission

have addressed “disruptive physician behavior.”

JHE JOINT COMMISSION SENTINEL EVENT ALERT - “BEHAVIORS THAT
UNDERMINE A CULTURE OF SAFETY”

On July 9, 2008, The Joint Commission issued a Sentinel Event Alert entitled
“Behaviors that Undermine a Culture of Safety,” which stated in pertinent part:

Intimidating and disruptive behaviors can foster medical errors . . . contribute
to poor patient satisfaction and to preventable adverse outcomes . . . increase
the cost of care . . . and cause qualified clinicians, administrators and
managers to seek new positions in more professional environments . . . Safety
and quality of patient care is dependent on teamwork, communication, and a
collaborative work environment. To assure quality and to promote a culture
of safety, health care organizations must address the problem of behaviors
that threaten the performance of the health care team.

Intimidating and disruptive behaviors include overt actions such as verbal
outbursts and physical threats, as well as passive activities such as refusing
to perform assigned tasks or quietly exhibiting uncooperative attitudes during
routine activities. Intimidating and disruptive behaviors are often manifested
by health care professionals in positions of power. Such behaviors include
reluctance or refusal to answer questions, return phone calls or pages;
condescending language or voice intonation; and impatience with questions
... Overt and passive behaviors undermine team effectiveness and can
compromise the safety of patients . . . All intimidating and disruptive
behaviors are unprofessional and should not be tolerated.!

' In 2016, The Joint Commission noted that “while the term ‘unprofessional behavior’ is preferred instead of
‘disruptive behavior,’ the suggested actions in this alert remain relevant.”

3
AMA OPINION 9.045
AMA Opinion 9.045, entitled, Physicians with Disruptive Behavior, adopted in

June 2000, states in pertinent part:

 

(1) Personal conduct, whether verbal or physical, that negatively affects
or that potentially may negatively affect patient care constitutes
disruptive behavior. (This includes but is not limited to conduct that
interferes with one’s ability to work with other members of the health
care team.) However, criticism that is offered in good faith with the
aim of improving patient care should not be construed as disruptive
behavior.

AMA OPINION 9.4.4
AMA Code of Medical Ethics: Professional Self-Regulation Opinion 9.4.4, adopted

in June 2016, pertaining to Physicians with Disruptive Behavior, states in pertinent part:

i The importance of respect among all health professionals as a means of
ensuring good patient care is foundational to ethics. Physicians have a
responsibility to address situations in which individual physicians behave
disruptively, that is, speak or act in ways that may negatively affect patient
care, including conduct that interferes with the individual’s ability to work
with other members of the health care team, or for others to work with the
physician.

Panel A also considered the Respondent’s treating and prescribing practices and

voted to charge unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The AMA has issued

the following relevant opinions:

AMA OPINION 1.2.1

The AMA has recognized that treating oneself or a family member poses several

challenges for physicians, including concerns about professional objectivity, patient

4
autonomy, and informed consent. Specifically, AMA Opinion 1.2.1 states:

When the patient is an immediate family member, the physician’s personal
feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment. Or
the physician may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical
history or to perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Physicians
may feel obligated to provide care for family members despite feeling
uncomfortable doing so. They may also be inclined to treat problems that are
beyond their expertise or training.

 

Similarly, patients may feel uncomfortable receiving care from a family
member. A patient may be reluctant to disclose sensitive information or
undergo an intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family
member. This discomfort may particularly be the case when the patient is a
minor child, who may not feel free to refuse care from a parent.

In general, physicians should not treat themselves or members of their own
families. However, it may be acceptable to do so in limited circumstances:

(a) In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no other
qualified physician available. In such situations, physicians should not
hesitate to treat themselves or family members until another physician
becomes available.

(b) For short-term, minor problems.

When treating self or family members, physician have a further responsibility
to:

(c) Document treatment or care provided and convey relevant

information to the patient’s primary care physician.

(d) Recognize that if tensions develop in the professional relationship
with a family member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical
outcome, such difficulties may be carried over into the family
member’s personal relationship with the physician.

(e) Avoid providing sensitive or intimate care especially for a minor
patient who is uncomfortable being treated by a family member.

5
 

(f) Recognize that family members may be reluctant to state their
preference for another physician or decline a recommendation for fear
of offending the physician.

AMA OPINION 8.19

In June 2016, the AMA issued Opinion 8.19 regarding physicians providing

self-treatment or treatment to immediate family members. AMA Opinion 8.19

states:

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their
immediate families. Professional objectivity may be compromised when an
immediate family member or the physician is the patient; the physician’s
personal feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical
judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered. Physicians may
fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical history or may fail to.
perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Similarly, patients may
feel uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an
intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family member.
This discomfort is particularly the case when the patient is a minor child, and
sensitive or intimate care should especially be avoided for such patients.
When treating themselves or immediate family members, physicians may be
inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training. If
tensions develop in a physician’s professional relationship with a family
member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such difficulties
may be carried over into the family member’s personal relationship with the
physician.

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant
when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family
members may be reluctant to state their preference for another physician or
decline a recommendation for fear of offending the physician. In particular,
minor children will generally not feel free to refuse care from their parents.
Likewise, physicians may feel obligated to provide care to immediate family
members even if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake self-treatment or treatment
of immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings
where there is no other qualified physician available, physicians should not
hesitate to treat themselves or family members until another physician
becomes available. In addition, while physicians should not serve as a
