 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

HUGH L. PREAS, II, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D43021 * Case Number: 2218-0097B
* * & * * & x * % * % * *
CONSENT ORDER

PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

On November 7, 2018, Disciplinary Panel B ("Panel B") of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged HUGH L. PREAS, II, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D43021, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.
and 2017 Supp).

Specifically, Panel B charged the Respondent with violating the following
provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404:

(a) Jn general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this

subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the

quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any

licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[.]
 

One form of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine is “disruptive
behavior.” “Disruptive physician behavior” has been addressed by The Joint Commission
and the American Medical Association (“AMA”).

JOINT COMMISSION SENTINEL EVENT ALERT, 2008

On July 9, 2008, The Joint Commission issued a Sentinel Event alert entitled

“Behaviors that Undermine a Culture of Safety,” which stated in pertinent part:

Intimidating and disruptive behaviors can foster medical errors . . . contribute
to poor patient satisfaction and to preventable adverse outcomes . . . increase
the cost of care . . . and cause qualified clinicians, administrators and
managers to seek new positions in more professional environments . . . Safety
and quality of patient care is dependent on teamwork, communication, and a
collaborative work environment. To assure quality and to promote a culture
of safety, health care organizations must address the problem of behaviors
that threaten the performance of the health care team.

Intimidating and disruptive behaviors include overt actions such as verbal
outbursts and physical threats, as well as passive activities such as refusing
to perform assigned tasks or quietly exhibiting uncooperative attitudes during
routine activities. Intimidating and disruptive behaviors are often manifested
by health care professionals in positions of power. Such behaviors include
reluctance or refusal to answer questions, return phone calls or pages;
condescending language or voice intonation; and impatience with questions
. . . Overt and passive behaviors undermine team effectiveness and can
compromise the safety of patients . . . All intimidating and disruptive
behaviors are unprofessional and should not be tolerated.!*

AMA OPINION 9.045, JUNE 2000
AMA Opinion 9.045, entitled, Physicians with Disruptive Behavior, adopted in

June 2000, states in pertinent part:

' In 2011, The Joint Commission revised the term “disruptive behavior” to “behavior or behaviors that undermine a
culture of safety.”

2 In 2016, The Joint Commission noted that “while the term ‘unprofessional behavior’ is preferred instead of
‘disruptive behavior;’ the suggested actions in this alert remain relevant.”

2
 

CRNA Three heard reports that the Respondent was present during
breast augmentation surgeries often and brought this up to the
Respondent while speaking individually to him.

There was consensus among the nurses and CRNAs that the
Respondent frequented the operating room more often during female

patient procedures than during male patient procedures.

On April 12, 2018, Board staff interviewed CRNA Four under oath. CRNA

Four worked as a CRNA at the Facility from in or around 2002 to in or around 2012.

CRNA Four stated that she decided to leave working at the Facility due to the Respondent’s

behavior. CRNA Four stated:

Staff persons at the Facility “talk[ed] about” how often the
Respondent would go into the operating room during breast surgeries.
The circulating room nurses put surgical towels over the windows of
the operating room so the Respondent could not look in during certain
plastic surgery procedures on female patients.

The Respondent came into the operating room more frequently with

female patients than with male patients.

During her interview, CRNA Five stated that she and CRNA Three

counseled the Respondent regarding his repeated and disproportionate presence in the

operating room during operations on young, female patients.

Demeaning Conduct toward Female Staff Persons

During her interview, the Complainant stated:

11
The Respondent demeaned and bullied female staff persons regularly
by yelling at them in front of patients and “making them feel like they
were stupid and not well educated.”

The Respondent would “follow [a particular staff person] around like
a puppy dog,” making all of the nurses uncomfortable.

The Respondent would “go off’ if called over by any nurses and

would yell, scream, or use profanity.

19. During her interview, CRNA One stated:

a.

The Respondent would interrupt female nurses during pre-op and
“disregard [the nurse] completely as if she wasn’t there at all, just go
in, talk over the nurse[.]” The Respondent would nudge the nurse to
the side and raise the table to his height while talking to the patient.
CRNA One never witnessed the Respondent engaging in this
demeaning behavior with male nurses.

The Respondent would “try to flirt with [pretty, young nurse
anesthetists] and, you know, try to be cutesy.”

When male nurse anesthetists worked, the Respondent “treated [them]
with respect” and did not go into their operating room or “hover
around them.”

The Respondent would “explode in anger” when female nurses called

him to help “stat.” The Respondent “would come in, throw the door

12
20.

21.

open, [and] start yelling. [H]e would scream at the nurse, “don’t ever
do that[.]”

The Respondent made a specific nurse feel very uncomfortable; the
nurse told CNRA One that when she was leaving for the day, the
Respondent would be waiting for her at the elevator and would walk
her to her car. The nurse asked CRNA One to walk her to her car
because this happened several times.

The Respondent created a demeaning environment, which caused
CRNA One to have trouble concentrating and focusing on her work.
CRNA One resigned from the Facility due to the Respondent’s

behavior toward her and the other female nurses.

During her interview, CNRA Two stated:

a.

c.

The Respondent would pick on specific nurses by saying “do this,
don’t do that” and CRNA Two believed these nurses were intimidated
by the Respondent’s behavior. He would make them “sort of feel like
nothing you do is right.”

There are female staff persons whom the Respondent “sort of beams
in on in kind of a bullying way.”

The Respondent did not intimidate or bully male staff persons.

During her interview, CRNA Three stated:
During the course of CRNA Three’s tenure at the Facility, she
received about four-to-five complaints about the Respondent’s
bullying behavior toward female staff persons.

Female staff persons reported to her that the Respondent’s behavior
“created a very uncomfortable work situation.”

When confronted with these complaints, the Respondent did not admit
to any wrongdoing. The Respondent said “[t]hat’s their problem. They

can come to talk to me if there’s an issue.”

22. During her interview, CRNA Four stated:

a.

The Respondent’s behavior caused the female nurses to feel
intimidated and bullied. He was “very, very demeaning to the nurses.”
The Respondent would raise his voice and say, “with this snappish
style ... just do your job.”

CRNA Four switched from full-time to part-time work at the Facility
in part because of the Respondent’s behavior.

The Respondent’s behavior “decreased morale.” It made the nurses
“very paranoid” and kept the staff from collaborating “as effectively

as they should.”

23. During her interview, CRNA Five stated:

a.

The Respondent is “very short” with people and “talks over” female
nurses in the pre-op area. He “just comes in and pushes them out of

the way.”

14
Female staff persons are “afraid to ask him things because sometimes
in front of patients he is demeaning.”

The female nurses feel the Respondent is intimidating and/or bullying
them.

CRNA Five had several discussions with the Respondent about how
his height and loud voice can be intimidating.

Female staff persons try to avoid interacting with the Respondent “at
all costs” and will “walk around him.”

The Respondent treated male staff persons differently than female

staff persons. He does not intimidate or bully them.

Unprofessional Relationships with One or More Female Staff Persons

24. During her interview, the Complainant stated that the Respondent had an

inappropriate relationship with a female staff person at the Facility that made other female

staff persons “very uncomfortable.”

25. During her interview, CRNA Two stated that the Respondent had a “pretty

cozy” relationship with a female nurse before she began working at the Facility.

26. During her interview, CRNA Three stated:

a.

CRNA Three was aware of a relationship between the Respondent and
a female nurse.
Staff reported this to CRNA Three because they felt it created an

environment of favoritism toward that nurse.

27. During her interview, CRNA Four stated:

15
28.

29.

 

CRNA Four observed the relationship between the Respondent and
the female nurse and felt it was not a professional way to run the
anesthesia department.

The Respondent would draw “little hearts on [the nurse’s] arm” while
in the operating room.

The other nurses felt that the Respondent had picked a favorite and it
affected morale.

CRNA Four approached the Respondent with other staff persons and
informed him that his actions were objectionable and unprofessional.
CRNA Four stated, “we definitely wanted something on the record . .

. that this is going on, and it’s not a good idea, and it should stop.”

During her interview, CRNA Five stated:

a.

The Respondent would “pass little notes” to a female nurse. Staff
persons also observed them in the parking lot and in equipment rooms
together with the door closed.

The Respondent’s behavior toward this particular female nurse made

the other nurses uncomfortable.

On April 9, 2018, Board staff interviewed a physician (the “Physician”) who

was formerly affiliated with the Facility, where he acted in a supervisory capacity. The
Physician stated that he counseled the Respondent after receiving reports from Facility staff
persons that the Respondent was involved in an “inappropriate” relationship with a female

Facility staff person, which they reported made them feel “uncomfortable” and was

16
“intimidating to other nurses.” The Physician stated that the Respondent denied engaging
in the relationship.
Respondent’s Response

30. On May 25, 2018, the Respondent, through his attorney, submitted a written
response to the complaint in which he denied all of the allegations the Complainant raised
in her complaint.

31. On August 2, 2018, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath. The
Respondent stated:

a. The Respondent denied telling the Complainant that she should take
her scrubs off.

b. The Respondent did make the “girls” comment but did not look at the
Complainant’s breasts and did not mean it in that way. He was
referring to the other CRNAs as the “girls.”

c. The Respondent never made the comment to the Complainant
regarding throwing something in her face.

d. No counseling ever took place regarding the Respondent’s presence
during surgeries on female patients because there was no difference
in his attendance frequency between those surgeries and any other
surgeries.

e. The Respondent received counseling twice regarding his behavior

during his tenure at the Facility, once regarding a comment made to

17
the Complainant and once regarding the placement of femoral nerve
blocks on female patients without a chaperone.

f. The Respondent does not raise his voice or shout.

g. The Respondent admitted to having a relationship with a female nurse
at the Facility. He admitted that his actions were not appropriate or
professional but denied that it affected staffs ability to do their jobs.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board finds
that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. §§ 14-
404(a): (3) Is guilty of (i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; and (ii)
Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is
IMMEDIATELY SUSPENDED upon the effective date of this Consent Order for a
minimum of FIFTEEN (15) BUSINESS DAYS,/ and until the Respondent enrolls in the
Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (““MPRP”) as set forth below; and it is

further

4 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be
tolled.

18
 

ORDERED that during the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the

following terms and conditions of the suspension:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) within 5 business days of the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) within 15 business days of the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
with MPRP, to include a third-party vocational monitor;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply
with all MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including
but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation
Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings
as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or condition
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent
Order;

(ec) the Respondent shall sign and update the written
release/consent forms requested by the Board and MPRP,
including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make
verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and
files in a public order. A failure to, or withdrawal of consent.
is a violation of this Consent Order; and

(f) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/ consent
forms to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to
and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and
to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical

19
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental
health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.

2. During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold
himself out to the public as a current provider of medical
services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name
or provider number by any health care practice or any other
licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or
other medical care facility in the state;

(e) dispense medications;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

(g) the Respondent shall establish and implement a procedure by
which the Respondent’s patients may obtain their medical
records without undue burden and notify all patients of that
procedure; or

(h) the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension
imposed by the Consent Order has passed and the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily
complied with all terms and conditions for the suspension, the Respondent may submit a
written petition for termination of suspension. After determination that the Respondent
has complied with the relevant terms of the Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may
administratively terminate the Respondent’s suspension through an order of the

disciplinary panel.

suspension.

Upon termination, the Respondent is placed on probation for a

20
(1) _ Personal conduct, whether verbal or physical, that negatively affects
or that potentially may negatively affect patient care constitutes
disruptive behavior. (This includes but is not limited to conduct that
interferes with one’s ability to work with other members of the health
care team.) However, criticism that is offered in good faith with the
aim of improving patient care should not be construed as disruptive
behavior.

AMA OPINION 9.4.4, JUNE 2016
AMA Code of Medical Ethics: Professional Self-Regulation Opinion 9.4.4, adopted

in June 2016, pertaining to Physicians with Disruptive Behavior, states in pertinent part:

The importance of respect among all health professionals as a means of

ensuring good patient care is foundational to ethics. Physicians have a

responsibility to address situations in which individual physicians behave

disruptively, that is, speak or act in ways that may negatively affect patient

care, including conduct that interferes with the individual’s ability to work

with other members of the health care team, or for others to work with the

physician.

On March 27, 2019, a hearing was held before Panel B, sitting as a Disciplinary
Committee for Case Resolution. As a result of negotiations occurring before Panel B, the
Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of Procedural

Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and Notary.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B makes the following Findings of Fact:
I. Background/Licensing Information
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is a physician licensed

to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to
 

minimum period of TWO (2) YEARS.° During the probationary period the Respondent

shall comply with the following probationary terms and conditions:

1. Within SIX (6) MONTHS of the effective date of the Consent Order, the
Respondent is required to take a one-to-one tutorial in professional workplace behavior.

The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain
the disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course
is begun;

(b) the disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the
internet;

(c) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary
panel that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal; and

(e) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course.

2. Within SIX (6) MONTHS of the effective date of the Consent Order, the
Respondent shall pay a civil fine of $ 10,000.00. The Payment shall be by money order or
bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O.
Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not renew or reinstate the

Respondent’s license if the Respondent fails to timely pay the fine to the Board.

5 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will
be tolled.

21
 

3. The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101—14-702, and all federal and state laws and regulations
governing the practice of medicine in Maryland.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a

violation of the Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on
the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions

of probation and the minimum period of two (2) years of probation imposed by the Consent

22
 

Order has passed, the Respondent may submit a written petition for termination of
probation. After consideration of the petition, the Respondent’s probation may be
terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be required to
appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary
panel may grant the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary
panel if the Respondent has complied with all probationary terms and conditions and there

are no pending complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the

terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

cae J
OY ps /2019
Date Christine A. Farrell
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

CONSENT
I, Hugh L. Preas, II, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document. By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all

23
its terms and conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any
request for amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive these rights and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on their behalf, and to
all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those
procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the
jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce
this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights
to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understands the language

“ie Signature on File
\\

Date Hugh L. Preas, Il, M.D.
Respondent

 

24
Read and approved:

 

NOTARY

STATE OF ! Ksord =|

CITY/COUNTY OF Ea Ax dh .

A) (\
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this [S day of . 2019, before

me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Hugh L.
Preas, II, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order
was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

 

ANGELA DENISE JONES
NOTARY PUBLIC ie
FREDERICK COUNTY, MD ‘
My Commission Expires 10/22/2020
Nota i
My Commission expires: (ols 2 tees

25
 

practice medicine in Maryland on March 16, 1992, under License Number D43021. The
Respondent’s Maryland medical license is active through September 30, 2019.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in anesthesiology and at all times relevant
to the charges, practiced at an out-patient surgical facility (the “Facility”)’ located in
Montgomery County, Maryland.

I. The Complaint

3. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing a
complaint, dated November 17, 2017, from an individual (the “Complainant”) who
previously worked as a certified registered nurse anesthetist (“CRNA”) at the Facility. The
Complainant worked at the Facility beginning in or around 2003 until in or around
February 2016. The Complainant alleged that during the course of her contract at the
Facility, the Respondent “regularly made lewd sexual remarks about [her] body,” both in
private and in the presence of female colleagues; sexually harassed her and physically
intimidated her by standing unnecessarily close to her or by otherwise invading her
personal space, which drew the attention of her colleagues; acted in a demeaning manner
toward her and other female staff persons; and had unprofessional relationships with one
or more female staff persons. The Complainant stated that after she approached the

Respondent to address these behaviors, he terminated her employment.

3 To maintain confidentiality, the names of health care facilities, the Complainant and Facility staff persons
have not been identified in this charging document. The Respondent is aware of the Complainant, and all
health care facilities and Facility staff persons referenced herein.

4
 

4. As part of her complaint, the Complainant attached declarations from five
current and former staff persons (“CRNA One,” “CRNA Two,” “CRNA Three,” “CRNA
Four,” and “CRNA Five”) of the Facility, which address the allegations the Complainant
made in her complaint.

Ill. Board Investigative Findings

5. As part of its investigation, Board staff obtained documents from the Facility,
and conducted interviews under oath of the Complainant, former and current staff persons,
and the Respondent. The Board’s investigation determined that the Respondent sexually
harassed the Complainant and engaged in other acts of inappropriate, disruptive workplace
behavior, in violation of the Act. The Respondent continued to engage in such behavior
despite undergoing counseling on multiple occasions by Facility staff persons. After the
Complainant confronted the Respondent about his disruptive and inappropriate behaviors
in or around January 2016, Respondent’s employer terminated her contract. Examples of
the Respondent’s inappropriate behaviors include but are not limited to those that are set
forth as follows.

Sexual Remarks

6. On December 11, 2017, Board staff interviewed the Complainant under oath,
who stated:

a. The Complainant worked at the Facility with the Respondent from in
or around 2003 until she raised misconduct issues with the
Respondent, after which the Respondent’s employer terminated her

contract in or around February 2016.

5
 

During the course of the Complainant’s work at the Facility, the

Respondent made many lewd and obnoxious sexually-oriented

comments to her, which made her feel uncomfortable and

demoralized.

The Complainant brought her concerns about these comments to the

attention of CRNA Three and CRNA Five. CRNA Three, in her

managerial role at the Facility, and CRNA Five, in her administrative
role at the Facility, counseled the Respondent.

After being counseled, the Respondent desisted for a period of time

from making such inappropriate comments, but then reinitiated

making them.

Specifically, the Respondent made the following comments in 2015:

i. In a conversation regarding the fit of scrub uniforms the
Complainant was having with a female colleague, the
Respondent told the Complainant, “well, you should just take
yours off, you would look great then.”

ii. In response to the Complainant indicating that she was going
to check on the other CRNAs, whom she referred to as “the
girls,” the Respondent, while looking at her breasts, remarked,
“the girls look fine to me from where I am sitting.”

iii. In response to the Complainant’s comment that she would eat

lunch quickly by “throwing some food at her face,” the

6
 

Respondent stated, “I can just imagine throwing something
else at your face.”

f. The Complainant stated that the Respondent “makes you feel like a
piece of meat... you’re just a female, you know, naked in his eyes.”

7. On January 31, 2018, Board staff interviewed CRNA One under oath.
CRNA One worked as a CRNA at the Facility from in or around 2005 to in or around 2013.
CRNA One left her employment at the Facility due to “the horrible conditions and
outrageous conduct” of the Respondent. CRNA One stated that the Respondent made
inappropriate, “very sexual,” and “very unpleasant” comments to the Complainant.

8. On February 15, 2018, Board staff interviewed CRNA Two under oath.
CRNA Two began working as a CRNA at the Facility in or around 2014. CRNA Two
stated that she heard the Respondent make sexual remarks to the Complainant, including
the following:

a. During the incident described in § 6(e)(i), above, CRNA Two heard
the Respondent tell the Complainant that she “could just take off [her]
scrub top.”

b. During the incident described § 6(e)(ii), above, CRNA Two saw the
Respondent look at the Complainant’s breasts and say either “I think
the girls are doing A-okay” or “they look like they’re doing just fine

to me.”
 

9. On February 27, 2018, Board staff interviewed CRNA Three under oath.
CRNA Three worked as a CRNA at the Facility from in or around 2002 to in or around
2011. CRNA Three stated:

a. The Complainant reported to CRNA Three that the Respondent “made
some very inappropriate comments to the Complainant in front of
other staff members about her breasts.”

b. CRNA Three told the Respondent that he could not make
inappropriate comments to the Complainant and the Respondent
agreed to comply.

10. On April 13, 2018, Board staff interviewed CRNA Five under oath. CRNA
Five began working as a CRNA at the Facility in or around 2001. CRNA Five stated that
Facility staff often came to her with concerns and she acted as an intermediary between
staff and the Respondent. CRNA Five stated:

a. The Complainant reported to CRNA Five that the Respondent made a
number of inappropriate sexual comments.

b. CRNA Five specifically remembered that the Complainant reported
the comment regarding the Respondent’s looking at the
Complainant’s breasts while saying that the “girls” “look[ed] pretty
fine to me.”

Standing Unnecessarily Close and/or Invasion of Personal Space

11. During her interview, the Complainant stated:
On a regular basis, the Respondent invaded the Complainant’s
personal space in the operating room by approaching her, standing
uncomfortably close to her and whispering into her ear. The
Respondent would stand so close to her that he touched her arm or the
chair in which she was sitting with his torso. This behavior occurred
50-70% of the time she was in the operating room.

The Complainant reported that she developed strategies in the
operating room to avoid having the Respondent come into physical
contact with her, such as by pushing the chair back and standing up
when he approached her.

The Complainant stated that the Respondent so persistently stood too
close to her in the operating room that other female staff persons
noticed his actions, which caused her embarrassment. The
Complainant stated that her colleagues started tabulating on an
operating room white board the frequency of the Respondent’s

approaches toward her.

12. During her interview, CRNA One stated:

a.

The Respondent would follow the Complainant around and “be very
close to her when he was talking.”

Whenever CRNA One and the Complainant would be talking, “[the
Respondent] would come in and interfere and wherever [the

Complainant] was, he would get close to her.”

9
 

Presence during Surgeries on Female Patients

13.

14.

15.

During her interview, the Complainant stated:

a.

The Respondent often came into the operating room during plastic
surgery procedures on younger women, specifically breast
augmentations/lifts or liposuction.

The nurses began blocking the window into the operating room with
surgical towels so the Respondent could not look into the room during
these procedures.

“Everybody knew” that the window-blocking took place “more for

[the Respondent] than any other reason.”

During her interview, CRNA One stated:

a.

The Respondent was in the operating room for “more than 80 percent”
of plastic surgeries on young women.

The Respondent would “look at the patient up and down.”

The Respondent would rarely come into the operating room during
procedures on male patients.

The staff “talked about [the Respondent’s behavior] and would roll
their eyes and, you know, feel very uncomfortable.”

While the Respondent was the supervising physician for these cases,
the CRNAs “were all very seasoned” and there was no reason for him

to come into the operating room, unless requested to do so.

During her interview, CRNA Three stated:

10
