Peter P. Chiang, M.D.

Date: Wty 24,20 iq

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Peter P. Chiang, M.D. License Number: D43472
Case Number: 7719-0057A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D43472, effective June 1,
2019. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef
seq, and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that on July 19, 2018, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against
me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) and (40). Specifically, Panel A alleged that I had
failed to meet the standards of quality medical care and keep adequate medical records
for multiple patients. I resolved these disciplinary charges through entering into a
Consent Order with Panel A, dated January 4, 2019 (“Consent Order”), in which Panel A
found that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) (fails to meet appropriate standards for
quality medical care) and (40) (fails to keep adequate medical records). Pursuant to the
terms of the Consent Order, I was reprimanded and placed on probation for a minimum
of two (2) years with certain terms and conditions including that I permanently cease
prescribing and dispensing all Controlled Dangerous Substances, with the exception of
buprenorphine, and that I complete a panel-approved course in medical documentation
within six (6) months of the Consent Order. A copy of the Consent Order is attached and
incorporated herein as Attachment 1,
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Peter P, Chiang, M.D,

_ Letter of Surrender
Page 2

. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order,
including taking a course in medical documentation, and due to my planned retirement. I
acknowledge that the Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order
of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required
to comply with the conditions of the Consent Order as long as I do not have or possess a
medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order, I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural Protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen, Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender, I have consulted with or was represented by an attorney prior to signing this
letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the
16.

The Respondent prescribed high dose opioids when alternative forms of
treatment would have been more appropriate (Patients 2, 3, 7, 8, 9 and 10);

The Respondent did not adequately address the patient’s positive urine tests
for illicit drugs or urine drug screening that was negative for prescribed
opioids (Patients 1, 2, 3, 5, 9 and 10);

The Respondent ignored red flags that would raise concern for diversion
(Patients 3 and 9);

The Respondent failed to initiate a patient on the lowest effective dose of
oxycodone (Patient 2);

The Respondent failed to prescribe naloxone‘ for prevention of suspected
opioid overdose (Patient 2);

The Respondent escalated the opioid dose without any documented rationale
(Patient 3); and

The Respondent failed to discuss with the patient the risk of taking
benzodiazepines concomitantly with high dose opioids (Patients 5 and 10).

The Respondent’s care as outlined above in whole or in part is evidence of

the Respondent’s failure to meet the standard of quality medical care in violation of Health

Oce. § 14-404(a)(22).

INADEQUATE MEDICAL RECORDKEEPING

17.

The peer reviewers concurred that the Respondent failed to maintain

adequate medical records in all ten patient records reviewed for reasons in whole or in part

as follows:

e The Respondent’s documentation consisted primarily of a check-off system

of prepopulated items. He routinely inadequately documented treatment
plans and responses to treatment (Patients 1-10);

4 Naloxone is a prescription medication that reverses the effects of an opioid overdose

7
e The Respondent’s notes lacked details, were repetitive, and often illegible
(Patients 1-10). For example, most notes document the same assessment and
treatment: “exercise” or “diet and exercise”;

e The Respondent routinely repeated the same examination findings for the
neurological, extremities and back as “within normal limits” (“‘wnl’)
(Patients 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6);

e The Respondent failed to adequately document follow-up notes (Patients 1,
2, 3, 5, 9 and 10). For example, the Respondent did not document treatment
plans, specific responses to treatment;

e The Respondent failed to document that he adequately addressed with the
patient inconsistent urine drug screens (Patients 1, 2, 3, 5,9 and 10); and

e There was a continued discrepancy between the patient’s recorded pain score
and the pain score documented by the Respondent (Patients 1 and 5),

18.. The Respondent’s actions and inactions as outlined in pertinent part above in
whole or in part is evidence of deficiencies in the Respondent’s record keeping in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40).

Il. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that the
Respondent’s actions as outlined in pertinent part above constitute a failure to meet
appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of medical
care in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (22); and failure to keep adequate medical
records as determined by appropriate peer review in violation of Health Occ. § 14-

404(a)(40).
I. ORDER
It is thus by Panel A, hereby:
ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that except for buprenorphine prescribed for addiction, the Respondent
is permanently prohibited from prescribing and dispensing all other Controlled Dangerous
Substances (CDS); and it is further

ORDERED:

(a) On every January 31st thereafter if the Respondent holds a Maryland medical
license, the Respondent shall provide the Board with an affidavit verifying that the
Respondent has not prescribed CDS (or the specified subcategory of CDS) in the past year;

(b) if the Respondent fails to provide the required annual verification of compliance
with this condition:

(1) there is a presumption that the Respondent has violated the permanent
condition; and

(2) the alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of a
Show Cause Hearing; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is permanently prohibited from certifying patients
for the medical use of cannabis; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION? for a minimum period
of TWO (2) YEARS to begin upon the effective date of this Consent Order, subject to the
following probationary terms and conditions:

1, Within SIX (6) MONTHS of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall
successfully complete an intensive Board disciplinary panel-approved course in medical
documentation. The panel will not accept a course taken over the Internet. The course

may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits required for license —

° If the Respondent’s license expires while the Respondent is on probation, the probationary period and
any probationary conditions will be tolled.
renewal. The Respondent shall provide documentation to the Board that the Respondent
has successfully completed the course. The Respondent is responsible for the cost of the
course;

2. The Panel may issue administrative subpoenas to the Maryland Prescription
Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP”) on a quarterly basis for the Respondent’s CDS
prescriptions. The administrative subpoenas will request a review of the Respondent’s CDS
prescriptions from the beginning of each quarter;

3. Within five business days of the date of this Consent Order, the Respondent
shall inform the Board in writing of his or her current employer or employers, the
employer’s or employers’ address or addresses, and of all locations including hospitals at
which the Respondent provides health care services. The Respondent shall keep the Board
informed of any subsequent employment changes within five business days of the change;

4. The Respondent shall, within five business days of the effective date of this
Order provide a copy of this Consent Order to the office of Controlled Substance
Administration, the federal Drug Enforcement Administration, and provide documentary
proof to the Board of the submission of these notices; and it is further

ORDERED the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation; and
it is further

ORDERED after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has passed:

The Respondent may submit a written petition for termination of probation. After

consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of the

10
disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel
to discuss his or her petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant the petition
to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel if there are no pending
complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before
an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing
before the Board or a Disciplinary Panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or Disciplinary Panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this
Consent Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or Disciplinary Panel
may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary
fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with all laws governing the practice

of medicine under the Maryland Medical Practice Act, §§ 14-101 — 14-702, and all federal
and state laws and regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is
further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed in
this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes into
effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of Panel
B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. ane oe

oifo4f2oig haw

D

ate Christine A, Farrel fone cutive Faoasl
Maryland State Board ¢ of Physicians

 
    

 

CONSENT
I, Peter P. Chiang, M.D., assert that I am represented by counsel and have
consulted with counsel before entering into this Consent Order. By this Consent and
for the sole purpose of resolving the issues raised by the Board, I agree and accept to
be bound by the foregoing Consent Order and its conditions.
By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for

amendments or modifications to any condition,
I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ, § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et
seq. concerning the pending notice of intent to deny. I waive these rights and have
elected to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right
to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on their behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive
those procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and
the jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and
enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest
the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order.
I waive all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the

language and meaning of its terms.

Signature on File

 

Peter P. Chiang, M.D. /

STATE/ DISTRICT OF _/Y “ Ag ai

13
CITY/COUNTY OF:

qn

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this tb day of Cem ber _, 2018, before
me, a Notary Public of the State/District and County aforesaid, personally appeared Peter
P, Chiang, M.D., and gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order was

his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

Nouey pul DENNES IM
NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MARYLAND
COUNTY OF ONTGGMERY

My commission expires: My Commission Exptras Nov. 8, 2078

 

14
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Peter P. Chiang, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I
understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,
Signature on

File LD.

NOTARY

STATE OF je?
crrvicounty or AACA inws Cov ry
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2" day of pAy , 2019 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Peter P. Chiang, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of

Surrender was voluntary.
ue

Notary Public~

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

My commission expires: ¢. 4: 1 { G

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A on this 24 Toy of , 2019, I
er P, Co

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Pet g, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,

OnSin J.

Christine A. Farrelly, Exectitive Director
Maryland Board of Physici
ATTACHMENT 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

~ Peter Chiang, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D43472 * Case Number: 2218-0001A

LJ an NAA IE INIA OOIEE OOH IAGO SSSR IH IGE II IERIE II I TI ISI IRI
CONSENT ORDER

On July 19, 2018, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of

Physicians (the “Board”) charged Peter Chiang, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number

D43472, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’”), Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §§ 14-401 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.).
The pertinent provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404 provide:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this State;

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review[.]
CDC! GUIDELINES

The pertinent provisions of the CDC guidelines provide:

1.

Nonpharmacologic therapy and nonopioid pharmacologic therapy are
preferred for chronic pain. Clinicians should consider opioid therapy
only if expected benefits for both pain and function are anticipated to
outweigh risks to the patient. If opioids are used, they should be
combined with nonpharmacologic therapy and nonopioid
pharmacologic therapy, as appropriate.

Before starting opioid therapy for chronic pain, clinicians should
establish treatment goals with all patients, including realistic goals for
pain and function, and should consider how opioid therapy will be
discontinued if benefits do not outweigh risks, Clinicians should
continue opioid therapy only if there is clinically meaningful
improvement in pain and function that outweighs risks to patient
safety.

Before starting and periodically during opioid therapy, clinicians
should discuss with patients known risks and realistic benefits of
opioid therapy and patient and clinician responsibilities for managing
therapy.

When opioids are started, clinicians should prescribe the lowest
effective dosage.

Clinicians should use caution when prescribing opioids at any dosage,
should carefully reassess evidence of individual benefits and risks
when considering increasing dosage to >50 morphine milligram
equivalents (MME)/day, and should avoid increasing dosage to >90
MME/day or carefully justify a decision to titrate dosage to >90
MME/day.

Clinicians should evaluate benefits and harms with patients within 1
to 4 weeks of starting opioid therapy for chronic pain or of dose
escalation. Clinicians should evaluate benefits and harms of continued
therapy with patients every 3 months or more frequently. If benefits
do not outweigh harms of continued opioid therapy, clinicians should

' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”).
optimize other therapies and work with patients to taper opioids to
lower dosages or to taper and discontinue opioids.

9. Clinicians should review the patient’s history of controlled substance
prescriptions using state prescription drug monitoring program
(PDMP) data to determine whether the patient is receiving opioid
dosages or dangerous combinations that put him or her at high risk for
overdose, Clinicians should review PDMP data when starting opioid
therapy for chronic pain and periodically during opioid therapy for
chronic pain, ranging from every prescription to every 3 months.

10. When prescribing opioids for chronic pain, clinicians should use urine
drug testing before starting opioid therapy and consider urine drug

testing at least annually to assess for prescribed medications as well
as other controlled prescription drugs and illicit drugs.

On December 5, 2018, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds:
I BACKGROUND
1, At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent was a physician

licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. He was initially licensed in
Maryland on July 2, 1992, and is presently licensed through September 30, 2018.
2. The Respondent is not board-certified in any specialty. The Respondent is an

approved buprenorphine prescriber for substance abuse.
3. The Respondent was working as a locum tenens physician for pain
management at a Health and Wellness center (“Facility A”),? located in Clinton, Maryland,
from June 14, 2015 through August 16, 2017, when he resigned. At all times relevant to
these charges, the Respondent was a general practitioner at a Medical Center (“Facility
B”), located in Baltimore, Maryland.

4. On or about July 5, 2017, the Board received a report from the Maryland
Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”) noting unusual prescribing practices by the
Respondent. OIG’s pharmacy investigator (“OIG Investigator”) noticed the Respondent
was prescribing high amounts of oxycodone to at least two patients who had a history of
past substance abuse or past criminal charges of controlled dangerous substance (“CDS”)
possession, distribution, and forgery. The OIG Investigator’s report included a spreadsheet
of patient prescriptions, including the prescriptions the Respondent had written and which
pharmacy had filled them.

5. On receipt of the complaint, the Board initiated an investigation which
included subpoenaing ten patient medical records from the prescription drug monitoring
program (“PDMP”) report the OIG Investigator had provided to the Board.

6. On August 22, 2017, the Board notified the Respondent of the complaint
filed and requested a written response.

7. The Respondent provided the medical records and a summary of care for

each of the ten patients requested.

? To ensure confidentiality, the names of individuals, patients, and institutions involved in this case are not disclosed
in this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of all individuals, patients, and institutions referenced in
this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

4
8. On January 16, 2018, Board staff transmitted the ten patient records,
summaries of care, and relevant investigative documents to two peer reviewers board-
certified in pain medicine for the purpose of conducting a peer review.

9, On or about May 7, 2018, the Board received the peer review report
regarding the Respondent's care and treatment of Patients 1-10. The results of the peer
review are set forth below.

10. On or about May 7, 2018, the Board sent the peer review reports to the
Respondent.

li. On May 22, 2018, the Respondent submitted a supplemental response to the
Board regarding the peer reviews.

INTERVIEW OF RESPONDENT

12. On December 12, 2017, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath.

13, During the interview, the Respondent said that he was the only provider at
Facility A and saw approximately 30 patients every Saturday, all for chronic pain
management. He also stated, however, that he spent about 30 minutes with each patient
and worked for 6 hours between 9:00 am and 3:00 pm.

14. When asked details about his time seeing patients at Facility A, the
Respondent said, “I don’t keep numbers.” He also stated that during an exam he routinely
took a complete history and reviewed patient records to evaluate prior treatment. The
Respondent further stated that he conducted urine drug screening to ensure patient

compliance. The Respondent acknowledged that he resigned from Facility A as a result of
receiving a notice of investigation from the Board. He stated he no longer treats patients
for pain management.
Il. PATIENT-RELATED FINDINGS
STANDARD OF CARE VIOLATIONS

15. The peer reviewers concurred that the Respondent did not meet the standard
of quality medical care in all ten patient records reviewed for reasons in whole or in part

as follows:

e The Respondent failed to adequately assess the patients for the purpose of
commencing opioid treatment because in whole or in part he failed to elicit
a comprehensive history, failed to conduct an adequate physical examination,
and failed to obtain prior medical records (Patients 1-10);

e The Respondent made non-specific referrals for alternative treatment such as
neurosurgery and physical therapy, but failed to provide a specific physician
or practice and did not document whether the patient complied with his
referral recommendation (Patients 1-10);

e The Respondent failed to discuss or apply the CDC standard of prescribing
less than 90 MME/day (Patients 1-10);

@ The Respondent consistently failed to check patients’ past and ongoing
medication history with the PDMP (Patients 1-10);

e The Respondent failed to provide adequate re-assessments to determine
whether there was a necessity to continue opioid therapy (Patients 1-10);

e The Respondent consistently maintained the patient on high doses of highly
addictive opioids which placed the patient at a higher risk for adverse events

of fatal or non-fatal overdoses, and an increased risk for opioid dependence
(Patients 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10); ,

3 The Respondent obtained prior hospital records for Patient 5 but failed to reference the visits in his notes to confirm
he had reviewed the records. :

6
