mii as: hea els

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

WALTER GIANELLE, M.D. ie STATE BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Respondent. * Case Number: 2219-0123

License No. D44413 *

* * * Fa * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

Walter Gianelle, M.D. is a board-certified Emergency Medicine physician who has been
licensed by the Maryland State Board of Physicians (“Board”) since 1993. Dr. Gianelle is the
President and sole owner of a group of urgent care facilities with six locations on Maryland’s
eastern shore (the “Facility”). On January 24, 2019, in a self-report to the Board, Dr. Gianelle
acknowledged that he engaged in a romantic and consensual sexual relationship for two years
with a female employee! while he also treated her in his capacity as an urgent care doctor. On
May 25, 2021, following an investigation, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board charged Dr.
Gianelle with immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii). Panel B also charged Dr. Gianelle with
violating . . . any rule or regulation adopted by the Board, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(43), based on his violation of the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations prohibiting a
health care practitioner from engaging in sexual behavior with a current patient. COMAR
10.32.17.03D(1).

An evidentiary hearing was held at the Office of Administrative Hearings on March 1,
2022. The State did not present any witnesses. Dr. Gianelle testified on his own behalf. The
Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) admitted into evidence twenty-nine documentary exhibits
submitted by the State and Dr. Gianelle as joint exhibits.

' For purposes of confidentiality, this individual is referred to as “Individual A” in this Final Decision and Order.
ocean Eis aaa

In a Proposed Decision issued on May 12, 2022, the ALJ recommended that the charges
issued by Panel B be upheld. As a sanction, the ALJ recommended that Dr. Gianelle’s medical
license be suspended for three years, to be stayed pending completion of: a three-year probation;
courses in ethics and professional boundaries within 6 months; and payment of a civil fine of
$15,000 also within 6 months. The ALJ also recommended that Dr. Gianelle be placed in the
Board’s rehabilitation program and comply with all of the program’s rules, referrals and
recommendations.

Dr. Gianelle filed written exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Decision, and the State filed
a response to Dr. Gianelle’s exceptions. Both parties appeared before Disciplinary Panel A of the
Board for an oral exceptions hearing on July 13, 2022. After considering the entire record,
including the evidentiary record made before the ALJ, and the written exceptions and oral
arguments by both parties, Panel A now issues this Final Decision and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A adopts Findings of Fact 1-12 to which the parties stipulated at the hearing. Panel
A also adopts the ALJ’s additional proposed Findings of Fact numbered 13-20 with some
modifications. The Panel corrects Finding of Fact 13 to state that on November 19, 2015,
Individual A completed diagnostic imaging studies ordered by another physician. Jt. Exh. 11, pp.
483-84; Jt. Exh. 23, p. 637. The Panel also corrects Finding of Fact 17 to state that Dr. Gianelle
diagnosed Individual A on January 1, 2017 with neuralgia and neuritis. Jt. Exh. 11, pp. 449. The
Panel adopts those findings as amended. Consistent with these amendments, the Panel also
amends the corresponding sentences in the ALJ’s discussion. Prop. Dec. at 15, 16. Otherwise, the
Panel adopts the ALJ’s discussion and analysis on pages 9-21 of the Proposed Decision. (The

ALJ’s Proposed Decision of May 12, 2022, is incorporated by reference into this Final Decision
———————e

ORDER
It is, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby:
ORDERED that Walter Gianelle, M.D. is REPRIMANDED; and it is further
ORDERED that the medical license of Dr. Gianelle, License No. D44413, is
SUSPENDED‘ for a minimum period of THIRTY (30) CALENDAR DAYS; and it is further
ORDERED that the suspension goes into effect November 15", 2022: and it is further
ORDERED that during the suspension, Dr. Gianelle shall comply with the following
terms and conditions of suspension:
(1) Dr. Gianelle shall not:
(a) practice medicine;
(b) supervise any Physician Assistant or delegate medical acts to a
Physician Assistant pursuant to Title 15 of the Health Occupations
Article;

(c) take any actions after the effective date of this Final Decision and
Order to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of
medical services;

(d) authorize, allow or condone the use of his name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health
care provider;

(e) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or
other medical care facility in the state;

(f) prescribe or dispense medications;
(g) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

(2) Dr. Gianelle shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) Within 5 BUSINESS DAYS of the commencement of the suspension period,
Dr. Gianelle shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for
enrollment;

“ Tf Dr. Gianelle’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be tolled.

11
i

(b)

(©)

(d)

(©)

@)

Within 15 BUSINESS DAYS of the commencement of the suspension period,
Dr. Gianelle shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

Dr. Gianelle shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

Dr. Gianelle shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP
to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board
to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. Dr. Gianelle shall not withdraw his release/consent;

Dr. Gianelle shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (ie., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Gianelle’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning Dr. Gianelle and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Gianelle, including,
but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. Dr. Gianelle shall not withdraw his release/consent;

Dr. Gianelle’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Final
Decision and Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Gianelle shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it

is further

ORDERED that, after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Final

Decision and Order has passed, and after Dr. Gianelle has fully and satisfactorily complied with

all the terms and conditions of suspension, Dr. Gianelle may submit a written petition to the

disciplinary panel for termination of suspension. Dr. Gianelle may be required to appear before

the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines

that Dr. Gianelle has satisfactorily complied with the terms and conditions of suspension, the

12
ee

disciplinary panel may administratively terminate Dr. Gianelle’s suspension through an order of

the disciplinary panel. If the disciplinary panel determines that Dr. Gianelle has not satisfactorily

complied with the terms and conditions of suspension, the suspension shall be continued through

an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms

and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that upon termination of the suspension, Dr. Gianelle shall be placed on

PROBATION for a minimum of THREE (3) YEARS.° Dr. Gianelle shall comply with the

following terms and conditions of probation:

1. Dr. Gianelle shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a)

(b)

()

(d)

Dr. Gianelle shall continue his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be entered into an amended
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan, as
determined by MPRP;

Dr. Gianelle shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

Dr. Gianelle shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP
to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board
to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. Dr. Gianelle shall not withdraw his release/consent;

Dr. Gianelle shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i-e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Gianelle’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning Dr. Gianelle and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Gianelle, including,

> If Dr. Gianelle’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.

13
 

but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. Dr. Gianelle shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) Dr. Gianelle’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Final
Decision and Order.

2. Within SIX (6) MONTHS of the effective date of this Final Decision and Order, Dr.
Gianelle is required to take and successfully complete two courses: (1) Ethics; and (2)

Professional Boundaries. The following terms apply:

(a) it is Dr. Gianelle’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the courses before the courses begin;

(b) Dr. Gianelle must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that he has
successfully completed the courses;

(c) the courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal;

(d) Dr. Gianelle is responsible for the cost of the courses.

3. Within TWO (2) YEARS of the effective date of this Final Decision and Order,
Dr. Gianelle shall pay a civil fine of FIFTEEN THOUSAND DOLLARS ($15,000.00). The
Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board
of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not
renew or reinstate Dr. Gianelle’s license if Dr. Gianelle fails to timely pay the fine to the Board;
and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation is a violation of this Final Decision and Order;

and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Gianelle shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is

further
ee

ORDERED that after a minimum of three years, if Dr. Gianelle has complied with all
terms and conditions of probation, Dr. Gianelle may submit a written petition for the termination
of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an
order of a disciplinary panel. Dr. Gianelle may be required to appear before a disciplinary panel
to discuss his petition to terminate the probation. The disciplinary panel may grant the petition to
terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Dr. Gianelle has complied
with all of the probationary conditions, and there are no pending complaints related to the
charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Gianelle allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Final Decision and Order, Dr. Gianelle shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a material
fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings, followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel. If the disciplinary panel
determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Gianelle shall be given a
show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Dr. Gianelle has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Final Decision and Order,
the disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr. Gianelle, place Dr. Gianelle on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions or suspend or revoke Dr. Gianelle’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions
set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Gianelle; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Gianelle is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms

and conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further
ORDERED that the effective date of this Final Decision and Order is the date the Final
Decision and Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director
signs the Final Decision and Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the
terms and conditions of this Order, and it is further

ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a PUBLIC document pursuant to

Health Occ. § 1-607, § 14-411.1(b)(2), and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File
(i /i0JZ0ZZ

Date Christine A. Farrelly, Ex utiye Director (/
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Gianelle has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Dr. Gianelle files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director

4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

16
Seas SR: eee

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:

Noreen Rubin

Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

17
Attachment A
—

MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF . * BEFORE SUSAN A. SINROD,
PHYSICIANS _ + AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
wo * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE
WALTERGIANELLE, = *-«OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

RESPONDENT oe
LICENSE No.: D44413 * . OAH No.:, MDH-MBP-71-21-25568
wk ek kk ek * * * i. *
PROPOSED DECISION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
. SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
‘ DISCUSSION , © ,
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
On May 25, 2021, the Maryland State Board of Physicians issued charges against Walter
Gianelle, M.D. (erection) for alleged violations of the State law governing the pratense
medicine, the Maryland Medical Practice Act (Act). Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101
through 14-508, and 14-601 through 14-607 (2021): The — is charged with violating
section 14-404(a) of the Act, Specifically, the Respondent is charged with the following:
e immoral condunt in the practice of medicine
e Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
Health Occ. 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) (2021); Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR)
10.32.02.038(3)(d). oO
‘The Respondent is also charged with violating COMAR 10.32.17.02D(1), which

prohibits a. health care practitioner from engaging in sexual behavior with a current patient, :
_ The disciplinary panel to which the complaint was assigned held ‘ennnting with the -
Respondent on September 15, 2021, to explore the possiblity ‘of resolution. COMAR
10.32.02. 03E(9). The parties did not resolve the issues at that time. The disciplinary panelto to
which the complaint was assigned feoested the charges to the. Office of the Attorney General
for prosecution, and another disciplinary panel delegated the matter to the Office of .
Administrative Hearings (OAH) for issuance of proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions ?
of law, and a proposed disposition. COMAR 10:32.02.03E(); COMAR 10.32.02.04B(1).

On November 30, 2021; I conducted a scheduling conference through the Webex
, ‘videoconferencing platform, COMAR 28.02.01.20B(1)(b). On February 8, 2022, I conducted a
_ prehearing conference., . .
IT conducted a hearing on March 1, 2022, at the OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland. Health
Oce. § 14-405(a); COMAR 10.32.02.04.. Robin Cockey, Esquire, represented the Responder,
who was present. Christopher Anderson, Assistant Attorney General and Aalosiiabnative .
Prosecutor, represented the State of Maryland (State).
Procedure is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative Procedure
Act, the Rules for Hearings Before the Board of Physicians, and the’ Rules of Procedure of the
' Office of Administrative Hearings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-201 through 10-226 :
(2021); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01. .
1. Did the Respondent engage in immoral ot unprofessional caiman in the practice
. . of medicine by engaging in a sexual relationship with a patient? If so,

2.” What sanctions are appropriate?
————E7E

and Order and is appended to this Order as Attachment A). The factual findings were proven by
a preponderance of the evidence.
CONSIDERATION OF EXCEPTIONS

First, Dr. Gianelle takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that his sexual relationship with
Individual A* was with a current patient. He contends that Individual A was never a current
patient of his because he did not engage in any sexual behavior with her during the times he
provided treatment. As he did before the ALJ, he argues that the unique nature of his practice as
an urgent care provider means that he does not have continuing physician-patient relationships or
patients in the ordinary sense, and that his provider relationship begins when a patient walks into
the urgent care exam room and ends when the patient leaves. The evidence in Individual A’s
medical record, over 5,000 text messages between her and Dr. Gianelle, and his testimony before
the ALJ, however, contradict Dr. Gianelle’s arguments.

It was undisputed that Individual A was diagnosed with a very serious medical condition
in 2013 which required continuing medical and surgical treatment in subsequent years. Dr.
Gianelle admits that he engaged in a lengthy romantic and sexual relationship with Individual A
from October 2015 to December 2017. Their sexual encounters took place in hotels, her truck,
her house, and in some Facility offices. The ALJ found that throughout the duration of that
sexual relationship, Dr. Gianelle treated her as a patient in his office six times - on January 2 and
11, 2016, June 8 and 22, 2016, October 12, 2016, and January 1, 2017, Jt. Exh. 11, and gave
medical advice on numerous other occasions. Jt. Exh. 23. He also treated Individual A twice in
2014 and early 2015 before they began their sexual relationship, and twice after their sexual

> Dr. Gianelle states, incorrectly, that Individual A is the Complainant in this case. It was Dr. Gianelle, however, not
Individual A, who self-reported the information to the Board about his sexual relationship with her on January 24,
2019. In his self-report, he stated that he did so because she filed a public complaint against him with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) in October, 2018, and he was concerned that his relationship with
her could be considered a “technical” violation of the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations. COMAR 10.32.17. Jt.
Exh. 1.
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
Exhibits
The parties submitted the following, joint seein

J oint Ex, #1- Self Report email from the Respondent to the Board, dated January 25, 2019;
‘letter from the Respondent to the Board, dated January 24, 2019; Maryland
* Commission on Civil Rights Charge of Discrimination, dated October 2, 2018

Joint Ex. #2- Letter fromi Molly Dicken, Compliance Analyst, Board, to Individual A,} dated

February 25, 2019

Joint Ex. #3- Letter from Ms. Dicken to the Respondent, dated meee 26, 2019; blank

Information Form, undated
‘Joint Bx. #4- Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated February 26, 2019
Joint Ex. #5- Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated Helenaey 26, 2019
Joint Ex. #6- Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated February 26, 2019 ©
Joint Ex. #7- Your Doc’s In Personnel Records of Individual A

Joint Ex. #8- Your Doc’s In Employee Roster; Information Form, dated March 8, 2019;

Physician Assistant Provider Basie
Joint Ex. #9- Addendum to Information Fonn, undated
Joint Ex. #10- Transcript of interview with Individual A, dated apie 12, 2019

Joint Bi. #11- Consent for Release of Information, dated October 3, 2018; Your Bor! sIn
medical records for Individual A, varying dates

Joint Bx. #12- Letter from Ms, Dicken to ESE. dated June 19, 2019

- Joint Ex. #13- Letter from Ms. Dicken to GE, dated Junc 19, 2019
Joint Ex. #14- Subpoena Ad Testificandum, dated June 26, 2019
Joint Ex. #15- Transcript of interview ih Aste Jn 28, 2019
Joint Ex. #16- — of interview with (MY. dated July 12, 2019

. Joint Ex. #17- Letter from Ms. Dicken to the Respondent, dated September 17, 2019; Subpoena
Ad Testificandum, dated September 17,:2019

| As in the Charges, this individual is referred to as Individual A for confidentiality.
. . 3
a

Joint Ex. #18- Letter from Robin R. Cockey, Esquire, to the Board; dated September 17; 2019;
letter from the Respondent to the Board, dated January 24, 2019 -

Joint Ex. #19- Email from Ms. Dicken to Mr. Cockey, dated September 20, 2019

Joint Ex. #20- Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated October 3, 2019

Joint Ex. #21- Letter from Jennifer G. Harrison, Hills Drug Store, Inc., dated October 8, 2019;
Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated October 3, 2019; prescription orders from Your
.Doe’s In, varying dates; Property Loss Notice, dated December 14, 2017

J oint Ex. #22- Transcript of interview with the Respondent, ‘dated October 15, 2019
Joint Ex. #23- Text messages between the Respondent and Individual A, varying dates

Joint Ex. #24: Letter from Mr. Cockey to Ms. Dicken, dated December 4, 2019; Memorandum

Opinion of the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, dated
December 2, 2019

Joint Ex. #25- [Board] Report of Investigation, dated March 4, 2020

Joint Ex. #26- [Board] Physician Profile Portal, undated; Endorsement/Flex Application, dated
March 8, 1993; Checklist for Processing Initial Application to Practice Medicine
in Maryland, received March 11, 1993; Certificate of Preliminary and Medical
Education and Identification, received March 23, 1993; copy of envelope from the

. University of Missouri-Columbia, addressed to the Board,” postmark date March
16, 1993; Certificate of Physicians, received March 11, 1993; letter from Mark
Zwanger, MD, MBA, FACEP, Residency Director, Emergency Medicine,

_ Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, to the Board, dated April 13, 1993;
Consent to Release Information, received March 11, 1993; Demonstration of Oral
Competency in the English Language, received March 11, 1993; Federation :
Disciplinary Information, received March 9, 1993; National Board of Medical
Examiners Endorsement of Certification, received March 22, 1993;

- Commonwealth of Virginia Bureau of Professional and Occupational Affairs
letter addressed “To Whom It May Concer,” dated March 9, 1993; University of
Missouri diploma, received by the Board on March 11, 1993; letter from Mr.
Zwanger to the Board, dated March 2, 1993; letter from Neva Mattheiss,
Licensure Analyst, Board, to the Respondent dated April 3, 1990; letter from
Israel H. Weiner, MD, Chairman, Board, to the Respondent, dated May 17, 2019;
License, Registration, or Certification Renewal, expiration September 30, 1994; .
three copies of a letter from the Respondent to the Maryland Department of
Health (MDH),? dated June 18, 1993; Renewal application, dated September 8,
2018; American Medical aanicape Physician ae, dated Heaney 5,201 19,

2 Some of the documents contained in the J oint Bxhibits date back to when the Board was known as the Board of

Physician’s Quality Assurance.
3 Some of the documents contained in the joint exhibits date back to when the MDH was known as the Department
of Mental Health and Hygiene. For consistency, I will refer to the agency as the MDH throighout this decision.

4
Sih:

Board Practitioner Profile System, dated January 30, 2019; Drug Enforcement
Administration Datafiles for the Respondent, data file release date, September 24

2020; two MDH CDS searches, expiration May 3 1, 2020, undated; Advisory .
Letter from the Board to the Respondent, dated January 5, 2018; Advisory Letter
from the Board to the Respondent, dated May 10, 2019; Advisory Letter from the
Board to the Respondent dated July 3, 2019 ,

‘Joint Ex. #27- Affidavit of Individual A, dated April 24, 2020

Joint Ex. #28- Letter from I, to Ashley A. Bosche, Esquire, dated
. August 28, 2019

Joint Bx. #29- Curriculum Vite 0f] NM, dated July 2, 2018

Neither the State nor the Respondent offered any additional exhibits for admission into

evidence.

‘Testimony

The State did not present the testimony of any witnesses.

The Respondent testified in his own behalf.

PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
The parties stipulated té the following facts:

4. . The Respondent has been licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland

since May 13, 1993. He has been licensed at all times relevant to this matter. His license is
active and scheduled to expire on September 30, 2022.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent owned and primarily practiced at a

group of — care facilites with vis locations in Maryland (Facility). The Respondent is
board-certified in emergency medicine and holds privileges at several Maryland hospitals.
3.  Onor about January 25, 2019, the Board received a letter (Commit) — the
Respondent, self-reporting that he had engaged in a “romantic and eae sexual .
relationship” with an employee of the Facility (individual ‘A). The Respondent reported that the

relationship began in late 2015 and lasted approximately two years. The Respondent

JS.
———

acknowledged that before, during and after their relationship, he also treated itivitit Aan a-
patient at the Facility. .

4, Based on the Complaint, the Board began an investigation,

5. In furtherance of the investigation, the Board obtained relevant dciggpit from

the Respondent, including, but not limited to, Individual A’s employment records at the Facility,

“ records docurhenting Individual A’s medical treatment as a patient at the Facility, a record of text

" messages between the Respondent and Individual A spanning the period of the relationship, and

records from the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program documenting prescriptions written by
the Respondent fo Individual A. The Board’s investigator also conducted sworn interviews with

relevarit witnesses including the Respondent and Individual A.

_6. According to the investigation, Individual A was hired as a medical assistant at

the Easton, Maryland location of the Facility in March 2011. She was promoted to manager of

the location shortly thereafter. In August 2016, she was terminated by a colleague of the

. Respondent, She was rehired in June 2017 but again terminated in May 2018. The Respondent

denies that he was involved in the personnel decisions.

7. The medical records indicate that the Respondent treated Individual A at the

' Facility for various indications on.the following dates: February 14, 2014, November 7, 2014,

Janmary 2, 2016, January 11, 2016, June 8, 2016, June 22, 2016, October 12, 2016, January 1,
2017, and January 9, 2018.

8. In addition; the Respondent referred Individual A for diagnostic imaging. on
January 11, 2016 and Junie 15, 2016. .

9.” Therecords indicate that in two of the visits, the Respondent prescribed

Individual A controlled dangerous substances.
——EE

10. In 2013, Individual A was diagnosed with a serious medical condition. In late
2015, she and the Respondent developed a friendship, and began texting each other regularly.
The text messages were often sexual in nature, including during the time period when the. .

Respondent was treating Individual A as a patient. Many of the messages discuss Individual A’s

“medical condition and treatment. Many others were work-related.

ms

ll. According to both the Respondent and Individual A, beginning in October 2015,
the pair met regularly to engage in sexual activity, including at the premises of the Facility.

12. Both the Respondent and Individual A report that their sexual relationship

- continued intermittently until it ended in December 2017.

After considering the evidence presented, I find the following additional facts:

13. OnNovember 19, 2015, Individual A had an MRI, through a referral by the
Respondent, That same day, sh and the Respondent had a sexual encounter in Room 5 of
Facility’ s Salisbury location. He also gave her advice that day as to _ to relax her abdominal
wall due to ahernia. On November 20, 2015, the Respondent ots individual A discussed the

results of the MRI.

sia _ Oa January 2, 2016, the Respondent treated Individual A for symptoms of a

' “urinary tract infection. He did a urinalysis and prescribed medication. That same day, the two

texted about seeing each other that day, and the Respondent said, in response to Individual A’s
text, that he “[w]anted to wrap [her] up as well, but glad to get in a few kisses!”

15. On January 11, 2016, the Respondent treated individual A for hip and leg pain.
He x-rayed her femur, removed some sutures from her chest and ordered an MRI ofher thigh .
and hip. Later that day, he texted her regarding the results of het MRI, and he told her “[t]he
treatment is lovemaking, should be at your house by 5. Love you!” The following _ they

texted about their encounter the night before.
16. On October 12, 2016, the Respondent treated Individual A for chills, sweats, and
afever. He drew blood, did a chest x-ray, an influenza test, and a strep test. “That same day, the

following conversation ensued by text:

Individual A: Will try to see my primary today. Don’t want to take advantage of
you or your clinic, Thanks.

Respondent: Ok! Letme Know! .

‘Individual A: Wow, really hoping that you would say that you wanted me to
come to you.

Respondent: Yes, ?’'m your primary, will see you soon!

Respondent: Ey wants you to keep up fluids, Tylenol and rest...except
Friday!!! :)))) :

Individual A: That is a deal!! Will be healthy and rested for our Friday of
loving!!! Glad I came to you, just don’t trust anyone like I trust you!!! Wish we
could have had a féw private moments today because you know what would have
happened...Love you!!!

Jt. Ex. #23, p. 856- 857.

17... On January 1, 2017, the Respondent treated Indiielitaat A for ncaa trauma. =e
. took x-rays, , prescribed medication, and diagnosed her with cE. On that same day, they ;
discussed arranging a sexual encounter,

18. / The Respondent gave Individual A continuing medical advice thoughout their
relationship. He regularly read her lab reports, prescribed her roestination, wel consulted with her
primary care physician and her Kidney specialist. The Respondent aut Individual A regularly
diseased her medical conditions.

19.- Atsome pest, staff at the Facility began to suspect that the Respondent and

Individual A were in a relationship. Someone had seen them come out of a hotel next to the-

‘ ER is either Individual A’s primary care physician or her kidney specialist.
8
Easton office. Others overheard telephone conversations between the Respondent and Individual —
A Shona noticed that za two would go into an office or a room to gether and stay for about a
half hour. ; .
20. The Respondent’s wife is the chief financial officer for the Facility.
DISCUSSION
LEGAL FRAMEWORK .

When not otherwise provided by statute ot regulation, the standard of proof in a contested
case hearing before the OAH is.a preponderance of the evidence, and the burden of pean rests
on the party making an assertion or a claim. Md. Code ee State Gov't § 10-217 (2021):
COMAR 28.02.01.21K. To prove an assertion or a claim by a preponderance of the evidence
means to show that it is “more likely so than not so” when all the evidence is considered,
Coleman v. Anne Arundel Cty. Police Dep’t, 369 Md. 108, 125 n.16 (2002). The State bears the
burden of establishing that the — violated the Act by a preponderance of the evidence.
COMAR 28.02.01. 21K(1)-(2)(@). ,

The grounds for reprimand or probation of a licensee, or suspension or revocation of a

. license under the Act include the following:

(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a. majority of the quorum of the
disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any lieensse on probation,
or soxpend. or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or
Gi) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine...

“Md. Code Ann., Health-Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) (2021).
—

The Board also charged the Respondent with a violation of COMAR 10.32.17.03D(1), .

which prohibits a health care practitioner from engaging in sexual behavior with a current

- patient.

(2) ‘Practice medicine” includes doing, undertaking, professing to do, and
attempting any of the following:
. @) Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing for, or removing any
physical, mental, or emotional ailment or supposed ailment of an individual:
1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that is exercised or invoked by
_ the practitioner, the patient, or both; or
2. By appliance, test, drug, iene, or treatment|.]

Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14- 101(0)(2) (2021).

Maryland courts in recent years have consistently expanded the definition of what
constitutes “in the es of medicine.” In McDonnell v. Comm’n on Med. ‘Discipline, 301 Md.
426 (1984), the court concluded that the legislature did not intend for a phstolan's general moral
character to be subject to sanction, thus, “in the practice of medicine” “is directly tied to the

physician’s conduct in the actual performance of the practice of medicine, i.e., in the diagnosis,

care, or treatment of patients.” Id. at 436-437 (attempt by physician to intimidate witnesses: .

scheduled to testify against him at a medical malpractice trial), However, in Bd, of Physician

Quality Assurance v, Banks, 354 Md. 59 Qa 999), the court rejected Banks’ argument that his

sexual harassment of co-workers during the hours of employment was not immoral or

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Banks court found the physician’s
behavior “sufficiently ineecwitned wth patient care to constitute misconduct in the practice of ,
medicine.” Id at 76-77. |

In Finucan » Maryland Ba of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Mad. 577 (2004), the
court affirmed the Board’s wedon against Finucan for having “used the physiciani-patient

relationship for purposes of facilitating the engagement of current patients in sexual activities.” -

10
_ The court in Finucan held that a physician’s sexual relationship with apatient constituted
unprofessional conduct in the practice of ecb: Id, at 595-596.
‘Th Cornfeld y. State Bd. of Physicians, 174 Md. App: 456 (2007), a physician was found
to have committed unprofessional conduct in the practice of deticias when he made false
statements to the hospital and Board regarding his conduct during a surgical procedure, Finally,
in Kim v. Maryland State Bd. of Physicians, 423 Md. 523 (2011), the court found that false
information by a physician-on his renéwal application constituted on conduct in the
practice of medicine. Id, at 547-548.
Applicable regulations prohibit a health care practitioner from engaging in sexual
misconduct, COMAR 10.32.17.03A. In pertinent part, COMAR 10.32.17.03C provides that

‘séxual misconduct includes, but is not limited to:

(1) Engaging in sexual harassment of a patient, key third party, employee, student,
or coworker regardless of whether the sexual harassment occurs inside or outside
of a professional setting;

(5) Using the health care e practitioner-patient relationship to initiate or solicit a
dating, romantic, or sexual relationship;

© Engaging in a dating, romantic, or sexual —— which violates §D of
this regulation or the code of ethics of the American Medical Association,
_ American Osteopathic Association, American Psychiatric Association, or other
professional code of ethics; .
” Participating in any —_ of sexual contact with a patient or key third party;

©) Causing a patient or key third party to touch the health care peste oney s
breasts, a or any sexualized body. parts...

11
THE POSITIONS OF THE PARTIES

The State argued that the Board’s investigative findings established that the Respondent
engaged ina sexual relationship with Individual A during a time when he was treating her as a
patient, which constituted immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of the Act and COMAR 10.32.17.03D(1). .

. The Respondent argued that the State failed to establish that the ee in
sexual activity with Individual A while she was his patient. He maintained that an urgent care
shnithen does not have an ordinary relationship with a patient. An individual comes to the

- Facility for an illness or injury, but the urgent care physician does not provide any continuing |
medical care. The urgent care physician may send a patient for testing, or to the patient’s
primary care physician, or even to the hospital, but there is no expectation that the urgent care
physician will provide any continuing care. The Respondent said that he did Individual A’s lab
work in his office a few times, and he referred her for tests or to her other doctors after he
examiried her, but he was not her poe care sforition, Therefore, the crux of the
Respondent’s argument was ‘that Individual A was only a patient of the Respondent's during the
time on she was at the Facility receiving treatment.

At the conclusion of the State’s case, the Respondent moved for judgment, arguing that .

: the State failed to establish that the Respondent violated the Medical Practice Act or COMAR ,
10.32, 17.03D(1). I informed the parties that I would address the Motion Sor Judgment in this
decision. After. reviewing the joint exhibits, I conclude that the State presented sufficient

evidence to establish its prima facie case, and the Motion for Judgment is denied.

2
 

relationship ended. The medical care Dr. Gianelle provided to her included prescribing
controlled dangerous substances, referring her for diagnostic imaging, and providing continuing
medical advice on health care issues related to her underlying medical condition.

Based on the voluminous texts between Dr. Gianelle and Individual A, the ALJ found
that on multiple occasions when Dr. Gianelle treated her, and on or around the same day of
treatment, they had a sexual encounter or discussed the possibility of one. On November 19,
2015, after Individual A completed diagnostic imaging studies, they had a sexual encounter in
Room 5 at the Salisbury office location of Dr. Gianelle’s practice. Also, on that day, in a text
following their sexual encounter, he advised her how to relax her abdominal wall due to a hernia.
The next day on November 20, 2015, he discussed the results of the imaging studies with her.

On January 2, 2016, Dr. Gianelle treated Individual A for symptoms of a urinary tract
infection, did a urine culture, and prescribed medication. That same day, the two texted
presumably about having seen each other that day, and in response to a text from her after he
treated her, he said that he “[w]anted to wrap [her] up as well, but glad to get in a few kisses!”
On January 11, 2016, he treated her for hip and leg pain. He x-rayed her femur, removed sutures
from her chest and ordered an MRI of her thigh and hip. Later that day, he reported the results of
her MRI, and, in a text, told her “[t]he treatment is lovemaking, should be at your house by 5.
Love you!” The next day, they texted about their sexual encounter the night before.

On October 12, 2016, he treated her for chills, sweats, and a fever. He drew blood, did a
chest x-ray, and flu and strep tests. Before that visit, Individual A texted Dr. Gianelle that she
would try to see her primary care physician (“PCP”) that day, he told her to let him know, she

replied that she had hoped he would say he wanted her to come to him, and he responded “Yes,
eeneseaais

‘THe RESPONDENT’S TESTIMONY
The Respondent started the Facility in 2005. He is Board certified in emergency
medicine. The Facility treats individuals for unscheduled illness or injury. According to the

Respondent, for the'time he is with a patient, there is a doctor/patient relationship; however,

ordinarily, the patient is discharged to the patient’s primary care physician for follow-up. -

The Respondent treated Individual A nine times and referred her for diagnostic tests
twice. Their romantic relationship — in 2015, They were both married at the time; each was
having marital problems. Individual A was promoted to manager of the Easton office of the
Facility, She developed some serious health problems, and the Respondent maintained that as a
friend, she would talk to him about those. There was a hiatus in her employment with the
Facility; a colleague of the Beepondent fired her in August 2016; she was re-hired in June 2017. ¢
She came to the clinic for treatment during that time, and the Respondent and Individual A’s
relationship continued. | .

The Respondent addressed each of the occasions he treated Individual A. There were
two occasions that he treated her in 2014, prior to the Sip that they began their romantic

relationship. Thereafter, on January 2, 2016, he treated her for a urinary tract infection. On

January 11, 2016, she came in with severe pain in her legs and hip. The Respondent sent her for

an MRI, which later came back normal. On June 8, 2016, Individual A came in for abdominal

pain after eating. The Respondent did lab work, and even though the lab work came back

normal, he referred her fa the emergency room because she was on immunosuppressant
medication. On June 22, 2016, Individual A came in witha cyst on her Jeg that she had for a
long time. She wanted the Respondent to remove it. The Respondent — her to go to a
derinatitigpict, but she refused so the Respondent removed it and suited it. On October 12, .
2016, she came in with a fever and cold symptoms during flu season. At the — of her

13
——

nephrologist, the Respondent did een a chest x-ray and a flu test, and Individual A.
followed up with that nephrologist. On January 1, 2017, she came in with severe palit in her

wrist. There was no —_— but he gave her 12 pills of Narco, a Vicodin generic pain

* medication. On January 9, 2017, ata point after their relationship ended, Individual A came ii

after slipping on the ice. She had pain in her ribs and lowe back. He gave her Narco at that
time as well. (On March 17, 2018, she fell down the stairs and hurt her shoulder and ankle. The
Respondent did x-rays, which were negative, and treated her for a sprain. Tr. 28-32.

The Respondent denied that Individual A was ever his patient. He treated her on
occasion as an urgent care patient. He iodioned, that she was never dependent upon him for
medical care in any sense. He denied that they ever had a sexual encounter when he was treating
her and said that their relationship was consensual and not exploitative.

The Respondent explained that at the end of 2017, Individual A started to want more than °
the Respondent could give to the relationship. As a result, he ended the relationship. After that,

Individual A threatened that he would “feel the wrath of a woman scorned,” and began to make

‘false accusations against him regarding sleeping with other patients and prescribing controlled .

dangerous substances seithuret seeing patients. Tr. 35. The Respondent said that he has spon
four. years defending himself against her unfounded accusations.

‘ The Respondent argued that an urgent care provider’s relationship begins when the
patient walks into the exam room and ends when the examination is finished, with the exception

of pea referrals for lab work, an imaging test, to the emergency room, or to the patient’s

primary care physician... He maintained Hat the State presen no evidence of a sexual

encounter during the times that he treated Tniieyacnal. A. He cited two outof: state cases, Dayley -

y. United States of America; Intermountain Health Care, Inc., 2018 WL 1590254, from the
United States, District Court, D., Utah, Central Division, and Nickler v. Meréy Medical Center,

14
oe)

“2003 WL 139791 from the Court of Appeals of Ohio. In Dayley, the court discussed the state’

Statute of-Repose, and cited Nickler, in is holding that “an urgent or stat care physician, who is
treating a patient for an urgent problem, does not have an ongoing relationship with the patient
and is not expected to see the patient again. Dayley, at *3.
ANALYSIS

Treviewed over five thousand text messages between the Respondent and Individual A.
Joint Ex. 23, Their sexual relationship lasted from October 2015 until late 2017/early 2018. .
Throughout the duration of the relationship, the Respondent treated Individual A as a goo six
times (January 2, 2016, January 11,2016, June 8, 2016, June 22, 2016, October 12, 2016,
January 1, 2017). Joint Ex. #11. He treated her two times in 2014 and early 2015, before they
began their slatiomatity. and twice after their selnitemite ceased. He wrote her prescriptions and
referred her for CT scans and other testing several times.

There were multiple occasions where the Respondent treated Individual A, and, on or

around that same day, they had a sexual encounter or discussed the possibility of one. On

" November 19, 2015, Individual A had an MRI, through a referral by the Respondent.’ Jt. Ex,

‘#1, p. 243. That same day, they had a sexual encounter in Rode 5 of the Facility’s Salisbury
location. Jt. Ex. #11, = 638-639. That day, he also gave her advice as to how to relax her
abdominal wall due to ahernia. Jt. Ex. #23, p. 638. The next day, on November 20, 2015, the
Respondent discussed the MRI results with Individual A. Jt. Ex. #23, p. 641. On January 2,
2016, the Respondent treated Individual A for symptoms ofa urinary tract infection, Jt. Ex. #11,

p. 461-462. He did a urinalysis and prescribed medication, That same day, the two texted,

. presumably about having seen each other that day, and in response to a text from Individual A ,

-after he treated her, the Respondent said that he “[w]anted to wrap [Individual A] up as well, but
glad to get in a few kisses!” Jt. Ex. #23, p. 676. On January 11, 2016, the Respondent treated

15
individual A for‘hip and leg pain. “Tt Ex. #11, p. 459-460. He ereyes her femur, removed some
sutures from her chest and ordered an MRI of her thigh and hip. Later that day, fe reported the
sais of her MRI, and told her “[t]he treatment is : lovemaking, should be at your house by 5.
Love you!” Jt. Ex. #23, p. 683. The ilinading day, they texted about their sexual encounter the
night before. Joint Bx. #11, p. 684. On October 12, 2016, the Respondent treated Individual-A
for chills, awects, anda fever. Jt. Ex. #11, p. 450-453. The Respondent drew blood, did a chest
x-ray, a test for ee and a strep test. Prior to her visit, the fillowing conversation ensued

by text:

Individual A: Will try to see my primary today. Don’t want to take advantage of
you or your clinic. Thanks.

Respondent: Ok! Let me Know!

"Individual A: Wow, really hoping that you would say that you wanted me to
come to you. , '

Respondent: Yes, I’m your primary, will see you soon!>

Respondent: {§EIEEJ wants you to keep up fluids, Tylenol and rest... except
Friday!!! :))))

Individual A: That is a deal!! Will be healthy and rested for our Friday of
loving!!! Glad I came to you, just don’t trust anyone like I trust you!!! Wish we

could have had a few private moments today because you know ‘wibitt would have
happened...Love you!!!

It. Ex. #23, p. 856-857.

On Ji anuary 1, 2017, the Respondent treated Individual A for forearm trauma. He took

x-rays, prescribed medication, and diagnosed her with neuropathy. Joint Ex. #11, p. 448-449.

5 The Respondent testified that he knew that comment did not look good for this case, but insisted he only said it to

calm her down because she. kept pushing for him to be her primary care physician, but he continually refused. Tr.
39-40,

16
—

On that same day, they discussed arranging a sexual encounter, but it was unclear from the text

messages whether it actually occurred. Jt. Ex. #23, p. 905.
The Respondent also gave Individual A continuing medical advice throughout their’

relationship. For example, on November 13, 2015, after a night together, the Respondent told

her how much he “loves loving” her, and then asks her about her bladder and said he would put

"her on an antibiotic if it was not better... Jt. Ex. #23, p. 630.° He often reviewed her lab work. Jt.

Ex. #23, pp. 693, 874, 890, 978. He called in prescriptions for her. Jt. Ex. #23, pp. 706, 716. He
spoke with her primary care physician and her kidney specialist.’ Jt. Ex. #23, pp. 735, 756. He
spoke to Individual A about her diagnoses. It. Ex. #23, p. 716, 735, 978. She regularly

sa . a

consulted him about a multitude of health issues. Jt. Ex. #23, p. 793. On October 27, 2017

Individual A told the Respondent that she saw EEE that day, and “changed my primary to

- you!!! Looks. like you are stuck with me.” Jt. Ex. #23, pp. 871. She asked him for referrals. Jt

Ex. #23, p. 885. She called him “the best PCP.” Jt. Ex. #23, p. 885.

THE CHARGES
COMAR 10.32.17.03D(1)- Sexual relationship with a current patient
I agree with the Respondent that the nature ofan urgent care practice is different from

that of a primary care physician’s practice or that of a specialist, An urgent care doctor treats an”

6 These Citations to the text messages between the Respondent and Individual A are examples only. There are many
more text messages with similar content which are not listed herein. Joint Ex. #23:

7 The record reflects the names of two of Individual A’s doctors with whom the Respondent coordinated and
consulted on Individual A’s bebalf, iy and ie. The Respondent testified thathe spokeon
occasion to both Individual A’s primary care physician and her kidney specialist; however, it is not clear from'the
record which doctor was the primary and which doctor was the eed specialist,

8 Presumably, primary care pigscie:

17
immediate medical _ and then will generally refer the patient elsewhere, either to a hospital,
an imaging test or to the patient’s primary care physician. However, as set forth above, the
Respondent and Individual A had sexual encounters on days that he treated her, and discussed
of and past sexual encounters, in and around the times hie treated her. Regardless, in this
‘case, I do not think it is even sssenstieg to find that their sexual — matched - in certain
instances with the dug he treated her. The Respondent took the medical relationship with
Individual A many steps further than that of an ordinary urgent care doctor.. His sexual
relationship wtih radiviaied A was completely intertwined with both her medical care, and her
employment with the Facility. Throughout their relationship, Individual A had some serious
health problems. Despite some of their text message conversations that seem to imply otherwise,
I do not believe that the Respondent was ever Individual A’s primary care physician. However, '
the Respondent oversaw Individual A’s medical en He played a role in her medical
health and consulted with her primary care physician and kidney specialist. The es
_ often reviewed and commented on Individual A’s lab oat: He prescaibed her medication even
when dis had not come to him for treatment. Regardless of the urgent care natiege ae the
Respondent’s practice, he took his medical relationship with altvidiuel A outside of the notmal
scope of an urgent care physician’s role. By virtue of his involvement in her health care, she
reasonably — that snvtlivennent to continue, and it did. With Individual A, the Respondent
stepped out of his role as an urgent care physician. Thus, in addition to the fact that there were
. multiple occasions when the Respondent and Individual A had sexual encounters on days that he
treated her, his entire involvement with her ee the duration of their two-year sexual
— was entangled with her medical treatment. Thus, I conclude shat the Respondent

engaged in sexual behavior with a current patient in violation of COMAR 10.17.32.03D(1).

-18
i

Md. Code Ann., Health Bex 14- 404 ANG i) and Gil Feamoral Eni Unprofessional Conduct in the
Practice of Medicine :

The Respondent’s sexual relationship with Individual A also constituted immoral and

: unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. Although their relationship was consensual.

it occurred in conjunction-with his treatment and exawaleations regarding her sonnet care,
Additionally, Individual A was his employee. They had sexual encounters in their office in the
middle of the day, during business ho They worked their schedules so that they — be
together. From the Board’s interview of Eee, a former employee of the Facility, it
was clear that co-workers were aware of their es Joint Bx. #15. They overheard

phone conversations, noticed that the Respondent would go into Individual A’s office and come

out a half hour later. Jt. Ex. #15, p.495. Co- workers had seen them coming out of a hotel near

the Facility’s Easton office. Jt. Ex. 415, p. 495. The Respondent’s wife was an instrumental part
of the Facility, and she and Individual A were friends. Although the Respondent cannot sibe
sanctioned by the Board for infidelity, his infidelity in this case involved, and affected, the
professionalism of the Facility. The — and Individual A utilized the Facility to enable -
their sexual relationship. Further, as set forth above, the Respondent took his medical ”
relationship with individual A far beyond that normally experienced in an urgent care scenario,
thereby extending ‘that relationship to a continuing doctor/patient relationship. ‘Tt was not
possible, under these circumstances, for the Respondent to remain objective where Individual A's i
medical care was concerned. His actions placed the medical profession, and the reputation of the
Facility, in an unbecoming light, By this behavior, the Respondent’s actions were “sufficiently

intertwined” with patient care, and with the operation of the Facility to constitute misconduct in

the practice of medicine.” Banks at 76-77. As such, his conduct, both immoral and

unprofessional, occurred in the practice of medicine, in violation of Section 14-404(a)(3)() and
(ii) of the Act.
: 19
SANCTIONS .

The Board may — disciplinary sanctions for violations of Sestiiin 14-404, including
a reprimand, period of probation, suspension, or revocation. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-
“404@) (2021); COMAR 1032.02.09; COMAR 1032.02.10: The Bade also may impose
conditions related to the offense or rehabilitation of the offender. COMAR 10. 32, 02. 0946). ‘In
addition, the Board may impose a fine instead of or in addition to Seeley sanctions.
COMAR 10.32.02.09D.

The Board considered some of the mitigating and aggravating factors set forth in
COMAR 10.32.02.09. As mitigating factors, the State noted that the Board has never before
disciplined the Respondent. COMAR 10.32.02,09B(5)(a). Additionally, the Respondent self |
reported his relationship with Individual A to the Board. COMAR 10.32.02.09B(5)(b).
However, the State suggested that this mitigating factor was quelled by the fact that the
‘ paspanident aaly sbititepietial after Individual A filed a lawsuit and an EEOC complaint against
him for sexual harassment; he did so eae he ‘knew the Board would sci aware of the
relationship. Nevertheless, the Respondent was cooperative in the Boaid’s investigation, which I
alse find to bs a mitigating factor. -

. The Board also found that there were aggravating factors, The State argued that the
Respondent’s actions were deliberate, a with gross negligence or reckless, by having sexual -
relations with a patient, knowing the medical we prohibition against doing so.
COMAR 10.32.02.09B(6)(b). Also, the State argued that the Respondent committed a
combination of factually discrete offenses adjudicated in a single action. COMAR

-10.32.02.09B(6)(e). The State argued that the Respondent crossed many boundaries and noted
that a physician can be prosecuted for only one sexual encounter with a patient. His violations’

continued repeatedly for over two years.

20
——_

The Board recommended that the Respondent serve a thirty-day — euspendted :
pending completion of the following tems: 1) Within six months, pay a civil fine of $25,000.00:
2) Be placed on ee for three years; 3) Within six months, complete a course in ethics and
a — in professional boundaries; 4) Within fifteen days, water see a participant rehabilitation
aqreenent and plan with the Maryland Physician Rehabilitation — and comply with all of
the program’s rules, referrals and recommendations; and 4) Sign all disclosures necessary to
allow the Board to monitor his participation.

I found the Board’s recommendations to be mostly reasonable and appropriate for the
Respondent’s violations. A deferred suspension aud probationary period are reasonable so that

the Board can ensure that the Respondent is rehabilitated through participation in the

" recommended courses and participation in the Physician’s Rehabilitation Program. The

Respondent engaged in behavior that he knew to be in violation of the Act, in favor of his own

‘interest and desires, There is nothing in the record before me to indicate that the Respondent has

done anything to rehabilitate these behaviors. However, regarding the fine, the State did not
explain its rationale or provide any breakdown of its recommended $25,000.00. While this fine |
is within the range allowed for his violations, I found it to be high under the circumstances. The

Respondent did not cause any public harm. He has never been disciplined previously.

- Nevertheless, I conclude that a fine is warranted to deter the Respondent from ever engaging in

this behavior again, and because his behaviors damaged the integrity of the profession. I

recommend that the Board impose a fine of $15,000.00.

? The minimum fine for this violation is $10,000.00 and the maximum is $50.000.00. COMAR 10.32.02,10B(3)(b).
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
" Based on thes foregoing Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated Section 14-404(a)(i) and (iii) by engaging in immoral and
unprofessional conduct within the se of medicine, by having ooninil relations with a patient.
Bd. of Physician Quality Assurance y. Banks, 354 Md. 59 (1 999); Finucan y. Maryland Bd. of
Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Ma, 577 (2004); COMAR 10.32.17.03D(1). a a result, I
conclude that the Respondent is subject-to disciplinary sanctions. COMAR 10.32.02.09A-B.
I further conclude that the Respondent is subject to a fine of $15,000.00 for the cited ~

violations. COMAR 10.32.02.10B(3)(b).

PROPOSED DISPOSITION

 

I PROPOSE that charges filed by the Maryland State Board. of Physicians against the
Respondent on May 25, 2021 "be UPHELD; and

I PROPOSE fost the heeoalete be sanctioned by a three- nyear suspension, to be stayed

onadiing completion of the following:
. 1) Within six months, pay a civil fine of $15,000.00;

2 Be sacet, on probation for three years;

3) Within six months, complete a course in ethics cal a course in professional
boundaries; .

4) Within fifteen days, enter into a participant rehabilitation agreement sia plan with the
Maryland Physician Rehabilitation Program and comply with all of the program’s rules,

referrals, and recommendations; and

22
Siete ES. seeaaebede,

I’m your primary, will see you soon!” *

He later texted that her primary care physician wanted
her “to keep up fluids, Tylenol and rest .. . except for Friday!” Individual A texted back that she
“[w]ill be healthy and rested for our Friday of loving!!! Glad I came to see you, just don’t trust
anyone the way I trust you!!!”

On January 1, 2017, Dr. Gianelle treated Individual A for forearm trauma, took x-rays,
diagnosed her with neuralgia and neuritis, and prescribed medication. That same day, in
sexually explicit text messages to each other, they made plans to arrange a sexual encounter that
evening. The next day, Dr. Gianelle texted Individual A with further advice on taking the
medication he had prescribed.

The ALJ determined that Dr. Gianelle gave Individual A continuing medical advice
throughout their sexual relationship. On November 13, 2015, after a night together, he told her
how much he “loves loving” her, and then asked her about her bladder and told her that he would
put her on an antibiotic if it was not better. He often reviewed her lab work, called in
prescriptions for her, spoke with her primary care physician and kidney specialist, and spoke to
her about her diagnoses. Individual A regularly consulted him about a multitude of health issues.
On October 27, 2017, she told him that she had seen her primary care physician that day, and
“changed my primary to you!!! Looks like you are stuck with me.” She asked him for referrals
and called him “the best PCP.” Although Dr. Gianelle was not officially Individual A’s primary
care physician, she thought of and relied on him as such, based on his ongoing participation in
her medical care.

As the ALJ observed, Dr. Gianelle had sexual encounters with Individual A on days that
he treated her and discussed future and past sexual encounters in and around the times he treated

3 The texts between Individual A and Dr. Gianelle show that she received primary care treatment from another
physician.
Mis (SR: Ras

5) Sign all disclosures necessary to allow the Board to. monitor his participation.

Sudan DSonr6kL
May 12,2022. :
Date Decision Issued Susan A. Sinrod
Administrative Law Judge
* gAS/emh
#197372

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

‘Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may file written exceptions with
the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the captioned
case to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), and request a hearing on the éxceptions

Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-216(a) (2021); COMAR 10.32.02.05. Exceptions must be

filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order. COMAR
10.32.02.05B(1). The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary
Panel of the Board .of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Attn:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director.

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the. opposing attorney, and the other party
will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response addressed as
above. Id, The disciplinary panel will issue a final order following the exceptions hearing or
other formal panel proceedings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-216, 10-221 (2021).
COMAR 10.32.02.05C. The OAH isnot a party to any review process. ~

23
Copies Mailed to:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
- Compliance Administration

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, MD 21215 _

Christopher Anderson, Assistant Attomey | General
Administrative Prosecutor

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

‘Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General
.300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Robin Cockey, Esq.

Cockey, Brennan & Maloney, P.C.
313 Lemmon Hill Lane

Salisbury, MD 21801

Walter Gianelle, M.D.

Nicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel
Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General
300 West Preston Street, Room 201
- Baltimore, MD 21201

24
her. He oversaw the medical complications that arose from her underlying serious health
problems, played a role in her medical health and consulted with her primary care physician and
kidney specialist. He reviewed and commented on her lab work and x-rays and prescribed her
medication even when she had not come to him for treatment. His intimate sexual relationship
with her was completely intertwined with both her medical care and her employment in his
practice. Because of his enduring involvement in her health care, she reasonably expected Dr.
Gianelle’s involvement to continue beyond the duration of any of her office visits, and it did. In
addition to the multiple occasions when they had sexual encounters on days that he treated her,
his entire association with her throughout the duration of their two-year sexual relationship was
inextricably entangled with her medical treatment. Regardless of the urgent care nature of Dr.
Gianelle’s practice, the ALJ concluded that he stepped out of his normal role as an urgent care
physician and took his medical relationship with Individual A many steps outside the scope of
that role. In so doing, Dr. Gianelle engaged in sexual behavior with a current patient, in violation
of COMAR 10.17.32.03D(1). Prop. Dec. at 18.

The Panel agrees with the ALJ’s analysis. Dr. Gianelle’s medical treatment of Individual
A did not simply consist of random urgent care exam room visits but involved a continuum of
medical care that spanned the timeframe of their entire sexual relationship. The evidence shows
that he was not only her friend and lover for over two years, but a physician who simultaneously
provided ongoing medical opinions, guidance, explanations, and treatment recommendations in
response to questions and medical updates from her during acute phases of her illness. She
confided her fears about the implications of her underlying medical condition to him and thanked
him for taking care of her. Even when not treating her immediate physical ailments in the urgent

care setting, he commented on and critiqued various medical and surgical aspects of hospital
baie amis at

treatment related to her condition and established a parallel physician-patient and sexual
relationship. Contrary to his exceptions arguments, the evidence is utterly at odds with his claim
that she was not a “current” patient and reveals that he indeed treated her as a patient in the
ordinary sense even while he eagerly pursued their sexual relationship. Dr. Gianelle’s invocation
of the urgent care label of his practice to obscure the continuous and involved nature of his
physician-patient relationship with Individual A over the two years of their contemporaneous
sexual relationship from 2015-2017 is unavailing. The Panel denies his exception and rejects his
attempt to use the nature of his practice as a cover for his unethical conduct.

Second, Dr. Gianelle relies on his claim that Individual A was not a current patient to
further argue that his sexual relationship with her did not constitute “immoral” conduct and that
generic prohibitions of “immoral” conduct are impermissibly vague without tangible content. In
essence, he argues that an urgent care physician is not bound by the ethical obligations that apply
to physician practices and is free to engage in sexual encounters with whomever he pleases,
whenever he pleases, wherever he pleases, as long as those encounters do not occur in the urgent
care setting when the physician is in the immediate process of delivering medical treatment to
the patient. Based on the tangible facts and circumstances of Dr. Gianelle’s prohibited dual
relationship with Individual A, these arguments are equally unavailing, illogical, and inconsistent
with the weight of the evidence. The ALJ justifiably concluded that his conduct was immoral,
unprofessional, and occurred in the practice of medicine.

Contrary to Dr. Gianelle’s arguments, the Court of Appeals has held that a statute

2”

prohibiting “unprofessional conduct” or “immoral conduct” is not per se unconstitutionally
vague. Finucan v. Md. Bd. of Physicians, 380 Md. 577, 593 (2004) (citations omitted). As Dr.

Gianelle acknowledges in his written exceptions, the Court explained that the term refers to
ae

“conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of a profession or conduct which is
unbecoming a member of good standing of the profession.” Jd. It is irrelevant that Dr. Gianelle’s
sexual relationship with Individual A was consensual or that it arose from her employment at his
practice. As a physician who deliberately pursued a two-year sexual relationship with Individual
A while repeatedly and concurrently involving himself in her medical assessments and
treatments, Dr. Gianelle’s “consensual sexual relationship” demonstrated “moral unfitness . . .”
See Finucan, 380 Md. at 593-94, quoting Lugo v. New York State Dep’t of Health, 306 A.D.2d
766 (2003). Dr. Gianelle knew of Individual A’s underlying serious medical condition and her
medical and surgical history. He was singularly aware of her trust in and reliance on him as her
medical provider. Her communications to him clearly indicated her health care expectations of
him as his patient and her dependence on and confidence in his medical knowledge as a
continuous health care provider throughout their prolonged romantic and sexual relationship. The
Panel finds that Dr. Gianelle’s conduct not only abused his professional status as a physician and
violated the ethics of the medical profession but was immoral within the meaning of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(3).

Dr. Gianelle also argues that the ALJ used his marital infidelity as a supporting factor for
her proposed sanction. Dr. Gianelle is incorrect. Rather, the ALJ determined that Dr. Gianelle
utilized his Facility to enable the sexual relationship. He engaged in sexual encounters with
Individual A in the office during business hours, the encounters were known to Facility
employees, and placed the reputation and professionalism of the Facility in an unbecoming light.
Prop. Dec. at 19. The Panel agrees with the ALJ that Dr. Gianelle’s misconduct as a Facility
physician and the owner of the practice was “sufficiently intertwined” with patient care and with

the operation of the Facility “to constitute misconduct in the practice of medicine.” Id. Board of
Pe Se:

Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59, 76-77 (1999).

Dr. Gianelle’s personal marital status is irrelevant. By gratifying his own sexual desires,
Dr. Gianelle failed to preserve a professional relationship directed solely on Individual A’s
health and welfare and risked losing the objectivity required of a physician providing medical
care. Additionally, his contention that Individual A was not harmed psychologically or
emotionally by his sexual affair with her misses the point. He ignored her obvious emotional
reliance on him during complications of her serious illness. He failed to recognize that his
dishonorable conduct increased the potential for harm to Individual A’s welfare because of the
inherent power differential that applies in a physician-patient relationship. In any event, the
Board does not have to wait for patient harm to occur. “No proof of injury or harm is required to
take disciplinary action against a physician’s license.” Pickert v. Maryland Bd. of Physicians,
180 Md. App. 490, 505 (2008). The Panel rejects Dr. Gianelle’s disingenuous, self-serving
interpretation of his professional obligations and the statute that applies to his conduct. Dr.
Gianelle’s conduct was not only immoral and unprofessional, but inimical to ethical medical
practice and patient protection. His exceptions are denied.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the findings of fact and discussion of Dr. Gianelle’s exceptions, as set forth
above, Disciplinary Panel A concludes that Dr. Gianelle is guilty of immoral and unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-
404(a)(3)(i) and (ii). The panel also concludes that Dr. Gianelle violated the Board’s sexual
misconduct regulations at COMAR 10.32.17.03D(1) by engaging in a sexual relationship with a

current patient, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43).
 

SANCTION

Dr. Gianelle further excepts to the ALJ’s recommended sanction and requests dismissal
of the charges against him. Panel A also denies this exception and adopts the ALJ’s proposed
sanction with some modifications, as set forth below. The Panel has considered applicable
mitigating and aggravating factors in its regulations. COMAR 10.32.02.09B. Dr. Gianelle does
not have a prior disciplinary history with the Board and cooperated with the disciplinary panel
proceedings. COMAR 10.32.02.09B(5)(a) and (c). With respect to his self-reporting and
admission of his sexual relationship with Individual A to the Board in January 2019, COMAR
10.32.02.09B(5)(b), the Panel notes that he did so based partially on the public filing of
Individual A’s EEOC complaint against him in October 2018. Aggravating factors in this case
include not only the combination of factually discrete offenses adjudicated in a single action, but
Dr. Gianelle’s deliberate and reckless commission of repeated sexual offenses over two years,
and the potential for harm to Individual A. COMAR 10.32.02.09B(6)(b), (c), and (e).

The Panel is especially concerned that Dr. Gianelle’s justifications for his sexual
transgressions in this case were not accompanied by any meaningful sense of personal
responsibility for or insight into his behavior. He rationalized his immoral and unprofessional
conduct and minimized the potential risks that his conduct posed for Individual A. His excuses
reveal a profound lack of understanding about sexual boundary abuses generally and betray a
troubling dearth of basic knowledge of and appreciation for the crucial physician-patient
boundaries that apply to his own practice as a licensed physician in this State. To remediate his
ethical and professional deficiencies and deter any future sexual misconduct or adventures by Dr.
Gianelle, the Panel will impose a sanction consisting of educational and disciplinary

components.

10
