IN THE MATTER OF % BEFORE THE

JACKIE ALLEN SYME, JR.M.D.  * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D44476 * Case Number: 2222-0100A
* * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

 

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license to practice medicine of
JACKIE ALLEN SYME, JR., M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number D44476, in
the State of Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Goy’t ("State Gov't") § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol.) and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”)
10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively
requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

 

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the

investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to

 
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the
following facts are true:!
Introduction

ie Panel A is summarily suspending the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine after a Board investigation determined that he has a health condition that affects
his ability to practice medicine safely,

Background/Licensing Information

2. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in
Maryland on May 20, 1993, under License Number D44476, The Respondent has
retained continuous licensure in Maryland since that time. The Respondent’s latest
license was given the expiration date of September 30, 2023.

* The Respondent was formerly board-certificd in neurology. The

Respondent’s board-certification expired in 2014.

4. At all times relat hereto, the Respondent practiced medicine at a health

care facility (the “Facility”)? that has several offices in Maryland.

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the basis of Panel A’s action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily
represent a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against
the Respondent in connection with this matter.

* For confidentiality reasons, the name of the health care facility will not be identified in this document,
The Respondent is aware of the identity of the health care facility.

2
Prior disciplinary history

5; On or about February 4, 2014, the Board charged the Respondent with
violating disciplinary provisions under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq., after its investigation determined that he
inappropriately prescribed high doses of opioid medications to patients without
appropriate justification or monitoring. The investigation also determined that the
Respondent was guilty of unprofessional conduct with respect to his storage of medical
records and conditions in his office,

6. The Respondent resolved the Board’s charges by entering into a Consent
Order, dated April 29, 2014, in which the Board found as a matter of law that the
Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404(a):
(3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (22) Fails to
meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of
quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office,
hospital, or any other location in this State; and (40) Fails to keep adequate medical
records as determined by appropriate peer review.

Ts Under the Consent Order, the Board reprimanded the Respondent and
permanently prohibited him from: practicing physical medicine and rehabilitation or pain
medicine; and treating any patients on an ongoing basis with controlled dangerous

substances (“CDS”) for pain management or for detoxification from CDS. The Board

 
also permanently restricted the Respondent’s ability to prescribe Schedule II CDS and
imposed a series of non-permanent terms and conditions.

8. Through an Order dated September 29, 2017, the Board terminated the
non-permanent conditions that were imposed under the April 29, 2014 Consent Order and
continued the above-noted permanent conditions, to which the Respondent is still subject.

The Complaint

9. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing a
complaint, dated February 2, 2022, from a health occupations licensee (the
“Complainant”),> who owns and operates the Facility. The Complainant stated that he
formerly employed the Respondent to provide medical services at the Facility. The
Complainant stated that the Respondent has an alcohol problem and that his behavior
toward patients “was often unprofessional and rude.” The Complainant also stated that
the Respondent kept poor medical records and at times failed to keep medical records.

Board Investigation

10. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained the Respondent’s human

resources (“HR”) file from the Facility and interviewed the Complainant, the Facility’s

office manager and the Respondent.

* For confidentiality reasons, the identity of the Complainant or any other individuals referenced herein,
will not be disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain this information from the Board.

4

 
The Respondent’s HR file

11. | The Respondent’s HR file states that the Facility hired the Respondent to be
the Facility’s medical director in or around December 2014, and that the Respondent
resigned from his position in January 2022. The file indicates that the Facility counseled
the Respondent on several occasions for recordkeeping deficiencies and deficiencies in
his professional image and attitude toward patients.

12. The HR file contains a document Ha ii signed by the Respondent and
the Complainant, dated May 18, 2020, which states, “I, Dr. Jackie Syme, have
communicated to the [Complainant] that I have been suffering from alcoholism. I have
expressed that I am getting treatment 4 days a week, 3 hours per day in the evening. I am
100% committed to getting healthy and to [the Facility’s] requirements of me.” The
requirements listed included: arriving on time and dressing professionally at work;
producing detailed reports; and being “kind and friendly to our patients and staff.” The
document also authorized the Complainant to talk to the Respondent’s therapist at least
once per week to ensure that the Respondent was continuing with treatment. The
document states, “[The Complainant] is holding on to your money for your benefit at this
time. He agrees to pay all your bills to ensure your quality of life. [The Complainant] is

doing this to help you, not hurt you.”

 
13. The HR file also contains a series of checks the Complainant signed that he
gave to the Respondent in order to help him pay his rent, electric bill, telephone bill and
insurance.

Interview of the Complainant

14. Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the Complainant on
February 16, 2022, The Complainant is a Maryland health occupations licensee. The
Complainant stated that approximately nine years ago, he hired the Respondent to
perform medical evaluations at the Facility’s offices. The Complainant stated that the
Respondent often came to work looking unwell and disheveled and that patients
complained that he smelled of alcohol and was rude to them. The Complainant stated
that the Respondent’s report writing was deficient and that his reports were often weeks
late, causing the Complainant to have “endless” meetings with him in attempts to rectify
the Respondent’s late submission of reports.

15. The Complainant stated that he first learned that the Respondent had an
alcohol problem about three to four years ago when the Respondent collapsed in the
office and had to be hospitalized for alcohol abuse and malnutrition. The Complainant
stated that after this hospitalization, the Respondent was rehospitalized for alcohol abuse

after he collapsed in the office.

 
16. In addition, the Complainant stated that there was an incident in the office
involving loss of a bodily function when the Respondent was treating a patient in the
office, requiring the Facility to close the office in order to clean it.

17. The Complainant stated that he wanted to help the Respondent and offered
to buy him new clothes, go to Alcoholics Anonymous with him, and offered to handle his
finances for him. The Complainant stated that he did this so that the Respondent “didn't
have extra money to get himself in trouble.” In addition, the Complainant stated that he
counseled the Respondent on a weekly basis and questioned the Respondent if he was
drinking while working, which the Respondent denied. The Complainant expressed
safety concerns about the Respondent, stating that he required an assistant to be present
in the room when the Respondent was with a patient. The Complainant also stated that
the Respondent had attendance problems while scheduled to work.

18. The Complainant stated that he does not think the Respondent is qualified
to be taking care of patients and has concerns about the Respondent’s ability to practice
medicine safely, stating, “I wouldn’t send anyone I know to him.”

Interview of the Facility’s office manager

19. Board Staff conducted an under-oath interview of the Facility’s office
manager on March 17, 2022, The office manager confirmed that staff and patients had
complained about the Respondent’s attitude and reported smelling alcohol on him. The

office manager stated that the Respondent looked very bad and appeared dirty most of the

 
time and that she also smelled alcohol on him. The office manager further stated that
there was an incident last year in which someone found the Respondent looking unwell in
the Facility’s lobby and brought him to the Facility’s office. The office manager stated
that the Respondent did not appear well and could not stand or walk without assistance so
she asked a medical assistant to call an ambulance that then transported the Respondent
to a nearby hospital. In addition, the office manager stated that she received reports that
the Respondent had loss of bodily control on three separate occasions while in the office.
Interview of the Respondent

20. Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the Respondent on March
18, 2022. In this interview, the Respondent reported that he has had an alcohol problem
since approximately 2001, and continues to drink at this time. He stated that he
currently drinks either wine or one half-pint of rum a couple nights per week. However,
the Respondent stated that when working at the Facility, he was drinking closer to a pint
of rum every night. The Respondent also stated that he will sometimes drink until 1:00
a.m. when he has to work the next day.

21. The Respondent acknowledged that he lost bodily control on one occasion
at work while treating a patient. In addition, the Respondent acknowledged that a few
years ago, he was hospitalized for malnutrition after he was found in the Facility’s lobby

appearing unwell and unable to walk.

* Board staff noted a severe tremor in the Respondent's hands throughout the whole interview.

 
22. The Respondent also acknowledged that he had a “DUT” in 2015.°

23, When questioned about treatment, the Respondent stated that he attended a
two-week intensive outpatient rehabilitation program in 2020 via Zoom. In addition, he
stated that he now attends twelve-step recovery events on Friday evenings and has a
sponsor. The Respondent acknowledged that neither the recovery program or his sponsor
are aware he is still drinking. In addition, the Respondent stated that his primary care
physician has prescribed a prescription-only medication for him for sleep. Board staff
asked the Respondent if he has any plans to seek additional treatment to which he stated,
“T probably should.”

CONCLUSION OF LAW

 

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, and that
pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's
license is summarily suspended.

ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. §
10-226(c)(2)(2021 Repl. Vol.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license to

practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and

° The Respondent reportedly pleaded guilty in the District Court for Queen Anne’s County to driving a
vehicle while impaired with alcohol on March 16, 2016, and was granted probation before judgment.

9

 
itis further

ORDERED that, during the course of the summary suspension, the Respondent
shall not practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a
post-deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday,
April 13, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel A immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407(b}(2021 Repl. Vol.); and
it is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a public document.

See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md, Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

 

Christine A. Farfelly, Executive Direbtor
Maryland State Board of Physicians ‘

10
