 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ANDREA N. BAILEY, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D44694 * Case Number: 7717-0017 B

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER OF SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Andrea N. Bailey, M.D. (the
“Respondent”) to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D44694.
Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov't ("State Gov't") § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.), concluding that
the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action. Panel B
bases its conclusion on the following investigative findings.
INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS
Following receipt of information regarding Respondent's arrest in Virginia for
“practicing medicine without a license”, the Board opened an investigation. Respondent
had been self-prescribing non-controlled medications and filling them in Maryland and
Virginia; however, on the last occasion, when Respondent picked up the prescription in
Virginia, the pharmacist was concerned and brought her concern to the attention of the
local criminal authorities. Panel B obtained further investigatory information that
Respondent wrote the prescriptions in the name of a fictitious patient, had multiple
prescription bottles, multiple blank prescriptions pads from other doctors, and alcohol in

her automobile.
 

Based on the investigatory information obtained by Panel B as summarized
above, and the specific instances described below, Panel B makes the following
investigative findings and concludes that Respondent's actions constitute a substantial
likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public health, safety, or welfare which
imperatively requires emergency action:

1. At all times relevant hereto, Respondent was licensed to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland. Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland in 1993. Respondent last renewed her license in September 2016, which will

expire on September 30, 2018.

2. Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in New York on November
13, 1991.
3. Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in Virginia on April 8, 2010.

4. On March 12, 2015, the Virginia Board of Medicine (the “Virginia Board”)
summarily suspended Respondent’s license based on her writing prescriptions for
controlled substances for her personal use in the name of fictitious patients.

5. On April 2, 2015, in a public Consent Order, Respondent’s license to
practice in Maryland was suspended until such time as her license was reinstated by
the Virginia Board.

6. On July 22, 2015, the Virginia Board stayed the suspension of
Respondent's license.

7. On July 30, 2015, the Maryland Board stayed the suspension of
Respondent's license.

8. On December 1, 2015, the New York State Board for Professional Medical
days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative
Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland
21031-1301; and it is further

ORDERED that on presentation of this Order, Respondent SHALL
SURRENDER to Board staff the following items:

(1) Respondent's original Maryland license D44694; and

(2) Respondent's current license renewal certificate, and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order of Suspension shall be filed with Panel B
immediately in accordance with Health Occ. Il § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it is

further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel B, and as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.

ji ‘\

Tolg 17, 2017 (asrlore
ate Christine A. Farrelly;

Maryland State Board of

   
  

 

utive Director /
sicians

11
Conduct (the “New York Board”), issued a statement of charges against Respondent.
The charges related to misconduct based on a disciplinary action by the licensing
boards of Maryland and Virginia. The New York Board also charged Respondent with
unprofessional conduct for fraudulently answering questions and filing a false report on
her New York registration renewal application in that criminal charges were pending
against her in Virginia, which she had failed to disclose.

9. On February 17, 2016, the New York Board held a hearing on the charges
at which Respondent did not appear.

10. On March 8, 2016, the New York Board issued a Determination and Order
in regard to Respondent, revoking her New York medical license.

11. On July 7, 2016, the Respondent's license to practice in Virginia was
suspended as a reciprocal action based on the action in New York.

12. On May 26, 2016, the Maryland Board issued disciplinary charges against
Respondent based on her making false representations regarding her arrest in 2013 in
Virginia in her application for reinstatement of her license in October 2014 and based on
her having been disciplined by the New York Board for actions that are grounds for
disciplinary action in Maryland.

13. On August 25, 2016, Respondent entered into a Consent Order with the
(Maryland) Board to resolve the charges wherein she agreed to a reprimand and four
years probation under terms and conditions.

14. Respondent does not hold any hospital privileges and is not board-
certified by the American Board of Medical Specialties.

15. Respondent's self-reported area of specialization is pediatrics.
16. Since at least October 2010, Respondent has been employed in various
pediatric practices in Virginia and Maryland as well as a locum tenens physician with
clinical assignments in Maryland and Virginia.

17. From approximately September 2016 to May 16, 2017, Respondent was
employed part-time at a private pediatric practice in Southern Maryland.

18. | Respondent has been intermittently living in both Virginia and Maryland.

19. Condition 1 of the August 25, 2016 Consent Order with the Maryland
Board, states as follows:

Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”). Within five (5) business days, Respondent
shall contact MPRP to schedule an_ initial consultation for
enrollment. Within fifteen (15) business days, Respondent shall
enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and
timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and
requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP[.]

20. On September 8, 2016, Respondent entered into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement (the “Agreement”) with the MPRP.

21. On May 11, 2017, Respondent was arrested by the Virginia Beach Police
Department and charged with one count of felony prescription fraud (attempting to
obtain or procure the administration of a drug or controlled substance by fraud, deceit,
misrepresentation, embezzlement, or subterfuge) and one count of misdemeanor
practicing without a license (engaging in practicing the profession or occupation of

medical doctor without holding a valid license as required by status or regulations), for

actions which occurred on April 2, 2017.
22.

On May 12, 2017, the Board was informed that Respondent was in the

custody of Virginia law enforcement. Also the Board was informed that Respondent's

employer (Employer A‘) terminated Respondent's employment based on concerns

about Respondent's behavior during the course of her employment, as well as concern

about her arrest in Virginia.

23.

On June 12, 2017, MPRP discharged her from the Program because

Respondent failed to comply with the Agreement.

24.

Findings from the Board’s investigation show that Respondent has been

engaged in the following:

a.

Respondent picked up a prescription at a chain pharmacy for a non-CDS
medication and later attempted to pick up a prescription for another non-
CDS prescription medication under a fictitious name with a fictitious date
of birth;

Respondent told the Virginia Detective that the fictitious name was the
name of her aunt. The Detective later determined that Respondent did not
have an aunt by that name;

Respondent represented to the chain pharmacy that she was an active
practitioner in the State of Virginia;

Approximately 20 prescription bottles containing various prescriptions
were found in the Respondent's car;

A 4-pack of “Cook’s Champagne” was found in Respondent’s car with two
bottles missing;

Blank prescription pads were found in Respondent’s car from various
doctors. The Detective spoke to one of the doctors, Physician A, who is
also a former employer of Respondent. Physician A stated that at no point
did he or his wife, with whom he practices, write any prescriptions for
Respondent and that there is no reason why she should have any of his
prescription pads. The Detective also provided the names of two other

‘ The names of Respondent's employer, any of her previous employers, and any of her health care
providers are not disclosed in the Order of Summary Suspension. Respondent may obtain a copy of a
Confidential Identification List from the administrative prosecutor.

5
25.

doctors whose prescription pads were found: Physician B, in Waldorf,
Maryland and Physician C, in Culpeper, Virginia;

Respondent provided a residential address in Norfolk, Virginia. The
Detective determined that the house at the address was Respondent's
mother’s house but had been sold several years ago;

The Detective called the pediatric office in Maryland where Respondent
was employed and informed the office manager that she needed to speak
to someone about an employee (the Respondent) who had received
prescriptions from doctors at the practice. Later, the Detective received a
call from Respondent who stated, “you weren't supposed to call my
employer” and “you need to drop the charges and call them back and let
them know that the charges have been dropped”;

Two different pills were found in Respondent's car which were not
immediately identifiable. The pills were sent to a laboratory for analysis;*
and

Respondent had filled 29 prescriptions at the chain pharmacy under the
fictitious patient name between September 2015 and March 25, 2017.

On May 22, 2017, the Board also received the narrative of the events that

led to Respondent’s arrest. A search of Respondent’s automobile revealed 17

prescription bottles, four of which had the name of the fictitious patient, and more than

75 hard copy (blank) prescriptions from more than 10 prescribers.

26.
Respondent.

a.

On May 25, 2017, the Board received the written response from the
Respondent stated that:

She did not realize until after she completed the ethics course’, that self-
prescribing with any other name than her own “would get me in trouble;”

She wrote the prescriptions for herself to “continue my therapy with
medications previously prescribed to me for these diagnosed conditions:
(diagnoses omitted)”;

For the past 6 years, she has been unable to afford medical insurance or
medical care for herself;

? To date, the Board has not been informed the results of the laboratory testing.
* One of the other conditions required that Respondent take an ethics course, which she completed in

April 2017.

6
27.

28.

She has been indigent and on food stamps for 5 years*, and

None of the prescriptions that she called in were for controlled
substances.

Further investigation by the Board found:

Respondent was arrested and held without bond but is currently out on a
$25,000 surety bond with pretrial supervision and drug and alcohol
screenings following a hearing on May 22, 2017;

Respondent cannot leave the Commonwealth of Virginia;

“Hundreds” of blank prescriptions with other doctors’ names were found in
Respondent's car;

Blank LabCorp forms were found in Respondent's car;

A passport that was not Respondent's was found in the car. They have
identified the alleged owner of the passport as a real person and is
possibly a family member of Respondent, though they do not know if the
owner provided Respondent with the passport:

There were prescriptions in the Respondent’s car for the owner of the
passport.

On June 22, 2017, the Board received copies of multiple photographs that

the Detective took of the inside of Respondent's car on May 11, 2017, the day

Respondent was arrested. The photographs reveal:

a.

A bank statement of April 2017 of an account which had a significant
available balance;

Numerous blank prescription pads from other doctors;

A prescription written by one of her coworkers at the pediatric office on the
Eastern shore; and

Alcohol (champagne).

* Recent bank statements were found in Respondent's car that indicated that she does have some
financial resources;
29.

Respondent's personnel file from the office in southern Maryland which

the Board obtained on June 2, 2017, by subpoena revealed:

a.

30.

Beginning in October 2016, several incidents where Respondent left the
medical office without informing the manager on duty;

Respondent submitted a text regarding being out sick without speaking
with the manger on duty;

In February, Respondent was two hours late for her 4:00 pm shift in the
office; and, there were additional incidents of Respondent being gone
from the office for 30 to 40 minutes without the staff knowing where she
was;

In April 2017, Respondent was counseled regarding staff and parent
complaints. Staff had complained that Respondent had been leaving
patients in examination rooms for extended periods of time while she was
in the “break area” and being rude to parents; and there was another
incident of Respondent leaving the medical office while she had patients
waiting to be seen;

In May 2017, there was another complaint that Respondent had left the
building while her patients were waiting to be seen, without informing the
manager on duty. Another pediatrician had to see her patients;

Also in May 2017, there were reports of her failing to document her clinical
activity in two patient's charts and failing to answer about a dozen calls
during the night that Respondent was “on-call”;

A summary of contacts between the Virginia Beach Police Department
and the pediatric office regarding Respondent’s arrest; and

On May 31, 2017, Respondent was terminated from her employment as a
pediatrician in the office in southern Maryland.

Vocational reports from Employer A from October 2016 through May

2017, show an increasing pattern of poor attendance and punctuality, deteriorating

relationships with colleagues, and decreasing quality of her work, specifying in the May

2017 report, “decreasing reliability, not completing work on time, leaving without

notifying anyone, change in relationship with staff and patients.”
31.

Respondent's medical records from the pediatric office in southern

Maryland do not show any record of her having received treatment by any of the

providers in the pediatric office.

32.

On June 26, 2017, Board staff interviewed Employer A, under oath, who

stated that to her knowledge no one at the pediatric office provided medical treatment to

Respondent.

33.

On July 3, 2017, Board staff interviewed Respondent, by telephone, under

oath. Respondent testified:

a.

She had been self-prescribing non-CDS medications for her own medical
conditions and refilling them herself;

She had received these prescriptions from other physicians for previously
diagnosed conditions;

One of the pediatricians where she had last been employed prescribed
two of the medications to her and two of the nurse practitioners where she
had last been employed prescribed other medications to her’;

After some point, she did not have medical insurance and did not have a
doctor; so she “called in” her own refills using a fictitious patient’s name;

In April 2017, she “called in” a prescription to a chain pharmacy in Virginia
Beach for a non-CDS medication in the name of the fictitious patient,
which was actually for one of her medical conditions. Respondent
represented herself as a Maryland prescriber. One of the pharmacists
became suspicious and reported the concerns to the Virginia Beach
authorities;

She paid in cash for the prescriptions;

She has intermittently been calling in prescriptions in a fictitious name for
the past ten years;

She had prescription pads from other physicians in her car. Some of the
physicians were those where she had worked as a “locum tenens” as long
ago as 2010 and some were from offices where Respondent was directly

° The Board is investigating whether these are legitimate signatures of the providers. There is no record
of either of these providers having written prescriptions for Respondent.

9
employed;

i. She acknowledged that she had unopened bottles of champagne in her
automobile;

j. She has been having financial difficulties; and
k. She had a driver’s license and identification from a health insurance plan
with the name of her mother, which is similar to the fictitious name she
created, in her automobile.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Board Disciplinary Panel B
concludes as a matter of law that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively
requires emergency action, and that pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-
226(c)(2), Respondent's license must be immediately suspended.
ORDER
Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings and Conclusions of Law, it is by
Board Disciplinary Panel B:
ORDERED that pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Govt. § 10-226(c)(2) (2014
Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.), Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further
ORDERED that a post-deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension in
accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08 B(7) and E will be held on Wednesday,
July 26, 2017 at 8:00 a.m. at the Maryland Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further
ORDERED that at the conclusion of the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing

before Panel B, Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request

within ten (10) days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within thirty (30)

10
