IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

JANET L. WASSON, M.D. * STATE BOARD

Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D44979 * Case Number: 7715-0064A
* * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A’) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Janet L. Wasson, M.D., (the
“Respondent’), License Number D44979, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Disciplinary Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann.,
State Govt § 10-226(c)(2)(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.) concluding that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

PROCEDURAL HISTORY

On October 10, 2013, the Board received an Adverse Action Report from
Hospital A, a hospital in Anne Arundel County, Maryland where the Respondent then
had medical privileges. The report notified the Board that the Respondent had
voluntarily resigned her medical staff membership and clinical privileges while
undergoing a Focused Professional Practice Evaluation (“FPPE”) of her surgical
practice. Hospital A had initiated the FPPE based on concerns that the Respondent’s
surgical complication rate was significantly higher than the rest of Hospital A’s general
surgeons and that the difference was not explained by the higher number of severely ill
patients she saw. Hospital A terminated the FPPE without action when the Respondent

resigned; however, the results of the independent review of her practice concluded that
her “practice patterns resulted in a clinically significant poorer outcome than would have
been expected.”

Upon receipt of Hospital A’s report, the Board initiated an investigation, which
included a peer review of several of the Respondent's surgical cases. Based upon the
peer reviewers’ findings, Panel A charged the Respondent with professional
incompetence, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4) and failure to meet appropriate
standards for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(22).

On March 10, 2015, the Respondent entered into a Consent Order with Panel A
to resolve the charges. Under the terms of the Consent Order, the Respondent was
reprimanded and placed on probation for a minimum of two years. The Respondent
was ordered to successfully complete a Board-approved remedial course in medical
record-keeping. The Respondent was also ordered to successfully complete a Board-
approved course in pain management because she had shifted the focus of her practice
from surgery to pain management. The Respondent was further required to undergo a
peer review.

CURRENT INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that

the following facts are true:'

‘ The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent, who is not currently board-certified
in a medical specialty,” was and is licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed on August 16, 1993. Her
license is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2017.

2. The Respondent owns and operates an office for the practice of pain
management in Upper Marlboro, Maryland.

3. Pursuant to the Respondent's 2015 Consent Order, the charts of six of the
Respondent's pain management patients were transmitted to an expert in pain
management (“Expert”) for review of her care. The review focused on the period
subsequent to November 15, 2015, the date she completed both of her remedial
courses.

General Practice Deficiencies

4. The Expert found that for all six patients, the Respondent:

a. Initiated opioid therapy at high dosages without a trial at lower dosages
to assess efficacy;

b. Prescribed excessively high dosages of opioids in the absence of
adequate pathology to substantiate treatment;

c. Prescribed excessive and medically unjustified opioids having
significant diversion potential, including OxyContin and oxycodone, yet
consistently failed to monitor adequately the patients’ compliance with
the prescribed regimen. The Respondent typically ordered urine drug

testing at a patient's initial visit but rarely, if at all, at subsequent visits;

? The Respondent's board certification in general surgery expired in 2014.

3
d. Increased dosages of already excessive and medically unjustified
opioids in the absence of an assessment of whether the lower dosage
had improved function or better pain control as compared to the
patient's baseline presentation. Such increases in dosages are a
potential danger to patient safety; and

e. The Respondent uses an electronic medical record system to
document her care. The Respondent's documentation was extensive
and repetitive making it difficult to discern what care the Respondent
actually provided at each visit. Despite the repetitive nature of the
Respondent's notes, she failed on occasion to document pertinent
information such as her treatment rationale for changing opioids,
adding medications and changing dosages.

5. In addition to the general practice deficiencies summarized in J 4, the Expert
found the following patient-specific deficiencies as indicated:

a. The Respondent ignored “red flags” of abuse or diversion such as
patient reports of running out of medication early, theft of prescription
or medication; Patient 2, Patient 3 and Patient 6

b. The Respondent increased dosages of opioids even after documenting
that patient’s pain was controlled with a lower dosage and/or without
significant change in physical examination, patient function and/or
diagnostic testing; Patient 2, Patient 3, Patient 4 and Patient 6

c. The Respondent failed to address urine drug screen results that

indicated the use of illicit drugs or drugs not prescribed by the
Respondent. These results constitute violations of the “Consent for
Chronic Opioid Therapy” agreements each patient signed when
initiating treatment with the Respondent; however, the Respondent
failed to take appropriate action to address results that were
inconsistent with her prescribed regimen. Patient 3, Patient 5 and
Patient 6

The Respondent prescribed sedatives, benzodiazepines, muscle
relaxants and/or sleep aids to patients to whom she prescribed high
dosages of opioids The combination of these medications with opioid-
potentiating effects increases the risk for opioid-related adverse events
such as respiratory depression and death. Patient 1, Patient 2,
Patient 5 and Patient 6

Patient 2 and Patient 3 are a married couple who reside at the same
address. During their one-year course of treatment, the Respondent
massively increased each patient’s daily dosage of oxycodone to 200
mg in the absence of medical justification. The Respondent failed to
address red flags including: Patient 2’s report that one of her
prescriptions and identification had been stolen; and Patient 3’s reports
that he had exhausted his monthly allotment of medication and that he
had taken some of Patient 2’s OxyContin before the Respondent
began prescribing it to him. The Respondent increased each of the
patient's dosages without ordering additional urine drug testing to

ensure that they were complying with her prescribed regimen.
SUMMARY
The Respondent prescribes consistently excessive and medically unjustified
opioids to her pain management patients. She fails to conduct appropriate compliance
monitoring for abuse or diversion. The Respondent’s opioid prescribing practices
constitute a substantial likelihood of risk of serious harm to the public health, safety or

welfare.

CONCLUSION OF LAW
Based on the foregoing facts, Disciplinary Panel A concludes that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this case, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.), Md.

Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing, it is, by a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel A,
hereby

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §
10-226(c)(2), the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland be
and is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with Md. Code Regs.
10.32.02.08B(7)C and E, has been scheduled for May 10, 2017, at 1:00 p.m., at the
Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland
21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing held
before Disciplinary Panel A, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the

6
hearing, may request within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be
held within thirty (30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the
Office of Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt
Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further

ORDERED that on presentation of this Order, the Respondent SHALL
SURRENDER to the Board’s Compliance Analyst, the following items:

(1) the Respondent’s original Maryland License D44979; and

(2) the Respondent's current renewal certificate; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol. &
2015 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is a Final Order of the Board and, as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq.

 

o4]2s [2017 Chustine f
Date Christine A. Farrell

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
