 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JULIAN PAPPY CHOE, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D45519 * Case Number: 2218-0265
* x * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
BACKGROUND

On February 28, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged Julian Pappy Choe, M.D. with unprofessional and immoral conduct in the
practice of medicine and the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations. See Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(a) (3)(i), Gi), COMAR 10.32.17.

The case was forwarded to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“SOAH”) for an
evidentiary hearing and a proposed decision. On October 6-7, 2020, a hearing was held before an
Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) at OAH. At the hearing, the State presented testimony from
one of Dr. Choe’s patients and a Board staff member. Dr. Choe appeared with counsel, testified
on his own behalf, and presented testimony from three fact witnesses.

On December 29, 2020, the ALJ issued a proposed decision concluding that Dr. Choe is
guilty of unprofessional and immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), and that Dr. Choe violated the Board’s sexual misconduct
regulations, COMAR 10.32.17. The ALJ proposed that the Board’s charges be upheld and
recommended that the Board reprimand Dr. Choe, order him to pay a fine of $10,000.00, and
require him to complete a course in appropriate boundaries and use a chaperone whenever he is

treating female patients.
 

Neither party filed exceptions to the ALI’s proposed decision. On February 24, 2021, this
matter came before Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Board. Panel B has considered the
record in this case, including the proposed decision of the ALJ, and now issues this order based on
Panel B’s findings of fact and conclusions of law. See COMAR 10.32.02.05B(4).

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B adopts the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact | - 12. See ALJ proposed decision,
attached as Exhibit 1. These facts are incorporated by reference into the body of this document
as if set forth in full. Neither party filed exceptions to any of the factual findings and the factual
findings were proved by a preponderance of the evidence. The Panel also adopts the ALJ’s
discussion set forth on pages 7-31. The discussion section is incorporated by reference into the
body of this document as if set forth in full.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that Dr. Choe is guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the

practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), and COMAR 10.32.17.
SANCTION

Panel B adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ, in part. The ALJ recommended a
sanction of a reprimand, a fine of $10,000.00, completion of a course on appropriate boundaries,
and a requirement that Dr. Choe use a chaperone whenever he is treating female patients. The
Panel will add a one-year period of probation to monitor the completion of the conditions, and the
Panel will require that the chaperone Dr. Choe uses not be his spouse or a family member.

ORDER
Based upon the findings of fact and conclusions of law, it is, on the affirmative vote of a

majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel B, hereby
 

I admitted the following exhibit into evidence on behalf of the Respondent:

Resp. Ex. 1- Diagram of the Respondent’s medical office including markings by witnesses,
undated

Testimony
The following witnesses testified on behalf of the Board:
| M.P.D.; and
Molly Dicken, Board Compliance Analyst

The Respondent testified in his own behalf, and presented the following witnesses:

aE
Sas
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

Having considered all of the evidence presented, I find the following facts by a

preponderance of the evidence:

1. - Atall times relevant to this proceeding, the Respondent was a licensed physician
in the State of Maryland.
2. At all times relevant to this proceeding, the Respondent was self-employed as a

_solo practitioner with an office in Frederick, Maryland, practicing internal medicine. The
Respondent’s office also employs one other staff person, the Respondent’s wit ii
3, At the time of the hearing, the Respondent was sixty-two years old. He was born
in Seoul, South Korea and moved to the United States with his parents when he was fourteen and

in the eighth grade. He learned to speak English during high school and college in the United

 

3M.P.D. was a patient of the Respondent. I will use her initials to maintain confidentiality. She is identified by her
full name in the Record.

4
 

States, He later attended medical school at Catholic Perpetual Health School of Medicine in
Manilla, Philippines in an English language program.

4, From June 1, 1998 to June 15, 2018, the Respondent provided cancer-screening

. services at his office for participants in he
Zi =
5. The Respondent started taking Spanish language courses in college in the 1970s.
In the mid-1990s, he took further Spanish language courses in an effort to better communicate
with his FM patients who were largely Spanish speaking. He later became the interpreter for
his Spanish speaking patients for the purposes of their appointments, and has acted in that role
for more than ten years. Additionally, since 2004, the Respondent has participated in medical
missions in Guatemala and the Dominican Republic where he speaks Spanish. Since 2005, he
has gone on these missions at least three times a year. He also attends a church within the
Hispanic community. |
6. M.P.D. was a patient in the Ea and saw the Respondent through the program
for annual exams in 2011, 2012, 2014, 2016 and 2017. In 2017, while examining M.P.D.’s
- preasts, the Respondent commented on the large size of M.P.D.’s breasts and commented on how
her husband must have been happy about her breasts, When the Respondent made these
comments, M.P.D, asked him to stop examining her breasts. M.P.D. only speaks Spanish, The -

Respondent communicated with M.P.D. in Spanish.

‘The El provides clinical breast exams, cervical cancer screenings, and pap smears to uninsured/under-insured

von
75
 

 

7. In 2018, when ae 2° interpreter with ~

Department and the a. contacted M.P.D. to schedule her annual exam, M.P.D. told Ms.
pases that she wanted to see a provider other than the Respondent. When questioned,

- M.P.D. told Ms. a during her 2017 exam, the Respondent had commented an the
large size of M.P.D.’s breasts, and commented on ‘how her husband must have been happy about -
her breasts. .

8. M.S.A.O.° was a patient in the and saw the Respondent through the
program for annual exams in 2007, 2008, 2013 and 2016. In 2016, while examining MS.A.0s

breasts, the Respondent stated that M.S. A.O. had the breasts 0: fieen-year-old. M.S.A.O. was
sixty-five years old at the time. M:S.A.0. only speaks Spanish. The Respondent communicated
with M.S.A.0. in Spanish.

9. In 2018,° when Ms. BR «ntact M.S.A.0. to schedule her annual exam,
M.S.A.O. told Ms that she wanted to see a provider other than the Respondent.
When questioned, MS.A.0. told Ms. MERE that during her 2016 exam, the Respondent had

‘ commented on M.S.A.0.’s breasts and stated that she had the breasts of a fifteen-year-old, and

_that the Respondent’s comments made her feel ashamed.
10. Ms. RRRRERE reported the patients’ concerns to the Pe ete tee]

Department. On June 1, 2018, the P| Department filed a Complaint

(Complaint) against the Respondent with the Board. The Complaint stated that the had

 

3MS.A.0, was a patient of the Respondent. I will use her initials to maintain confidentiality. She is identified by
her full name in the Record. .

6 The medical records admitted g5 ow that M.S.A.O. had private insurance in 2017 and therefore
received her mammogram from in 2017 rather than through the a.

6

 
 

received “numerous complaints” from patients who refused to see the Respondent because they
“did not feel comfortable” being seen by the Respondent.

11. After receiving these complaints, the (HEE terminated its contract with the

| Respondent,
12. The Board investigated the Complaint, and on February 28, 2020, determined that
’ the Respondent was guilty of immoral conduct in the practice of medicine (Health Occ, § 14-
404(a)(3)(i)), unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine (Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3) (ii)
and in violation of the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations under COMAR 10.32.17.
DISCUSSION

Burdens of Proof

When not otherwise provided by statute or regulation, the standard of proof in a contested
case hearing before the OAH is a preponderanee of the evidence, and the burden of proof rests.
on the party making an assertion or a claim. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-217 (2014);
COMAR 28.02.01.21K. To prove an assertion or a claim by a preponderance of the evidence
means to show that it is “more likely so than not so” when all the evidence is considered.
Coleman v. Anne Arundel Cty. Police Dep’ t, 369 Md. 108, 125 n.16 (2002).

In this case, the State (which is prosecuting the charges for the Board), as the moving
party, has the burden of proof, by a preponderance of the evidence. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’ t
§ 10-217 (2014); Md. Code Ann., Health- Occ. § 14-405 (Supp. 2020); COMAR
28.02.01.21K(1)-(2)(a); Comm’ r of Labor and Indus. v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 344 Md. 17, 34

(1996) (citing Bernstein v. Real-Estate Comm’ n, 221 Md. 221, 231 (1959)).

 

7 For the purposes of this hearing, the term “numerous complaints” as utilized by h
_ Department refers to the complaints by M.P.D. and M.S.A.0. .

7
 

 

Legal Framework
’ The grounds for reprimand or probation of a licensee, or suspension or revocation ofa
license under the Maryland Medical Practice Act include the following:
(a) In general, ~ Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the
disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or

revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[. ]
Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)G@) and (ii) (Supp. 2020). Practicing medicine includes «{a}iagnosing,
healing, treating, preventing, prescribing for, or removing any physical, mental, or emotional
ailment or supposed ailment of an individual: 1. [b]y physical, mental, emotional, or other
process-that is exercised or invoked by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or 2, bly appliance,
test, drug, operation, or treatment... .” Health Occ. § 14-101(0) (2014).

The Board’s sexual misconduct regulations under COMAR 10.32.17 state that the
pehavior described in Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) includes sexual misconduct. The
regulation defines sexual misconduct, in part, as:

C. Sexual misconduct includes, but is not limited to:

(1) Engaging in sexual harassment of a patient...regardless of whether the sexual

harassment occurs inside or outside of a professional setting.
 

COMAR 10.32.17.03(C)(1). The Board’s sexual misconduct regulation defines “sexual
harassment” as “an unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favor, or other verbal or
physical conduct of a sexual nature,” COMAR 10.32.17.02(B)(4).
Arguments of the Parties
The State. contends that the Respondent made inappropriate comments of a sexual nature
to patients M.P.D. and M.S.A.O. and that those comments constitute immoral and inappropriate
conduct in the practice of medicine. The State further argues that the Respondent took advantage
of his physician-patient relationship with M.P.D. and M.S.A.O., and their vulnerability as non-
| English speaking participants in need of free medical care, to target them for sexual harassment,
The Respondent does not categorically denythat he made the inappropriate comments,
but atgues that it is more likely that he did not make the statements, made innocent statements in
Spanish that were misconstrued by patients M.P.D. and M.S.A.O., or that he accidentally made
the statements in Spanish, but did not intend to. The Respondent maintains that, even if he did
make the statements, it was not intentional and therefore was neither immoral nor unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine.

Testimony
M.P.D.

In support of its case, the State presented the testimony of M.P.D., who described her
experience as the Respondent’s patient. M.P.D. testified that she has lived in County
for eighteen years, does not speak English and in 2011, sought help from the im to get a
mammogram, The sent her to the Respondent for a mammogram and she saw him for
that purpose five or six times between 2011 and.2017. She stated that when she would visit his

office, she would communicate with the Respondent in Spanish and that his Spanish was “very

9
 

good” (Transcript, Vol. I, pg: 41), but that Ms Boke “tittle Spanish” (Transcript, Vol. J,
pe. 41). She recounted that at her last appointment with the Respondent, in 2017, when the
Respondent examined her breasts, as she lay on her back wearing an open paper drape, he
commented that she was very lucky to have such large breasts, and that her husband. must have
been very happy about her breasts. She stated that, while at previous visits Ms. EB had been
present during the exam as a chaperone, she was not present on this date. After the Respondent
made these comments, MPD. said she asked him to stop touching her, and ended the exam.
(Transeript Vol. I, pg. 45). MPD. did not file any sort of complaint, and did not intend to, but
in 2018, when she was contacted to schedule her next mammogram, she requested a different
doctor and told the RZ interpreter, a. that the Respondent made her feel
uncomfortable because of what he said during the 2017 exam. As part of its investigation, the
Board interviewed M.P.D. on February 21, 2019 and she essentially provided the same
testimony. (Bd. Ex. 11). .

On cross-examination MBP.D. acknowledged that she may not remember whether the
Respondent or Ms orousht her into the exam room for her exam in 2017, or whether or
not the Respondent remained in the room when she changed into the drape. The Respondent’s
counsel indicated that M.P.D. also had a colonoscopy-prep exam on the same date as her last
mammogram with the Respondent, and M.PD. testified that she did not remember having .
anything other than the breast exam on that day. The Respondent described the colonoscopy
exam as a clearance for the procedure that involved taking the patient’s vital signs. However,
MPD. did recollect having her blood pressure and temperature checked, both procedures that

were done during the colonoscopy-prep exam, but not during the breast exam. So M.P.D. did

10
 

remember elements of both exams. Also, on cross-examination, M.P.D. inaccurately recollected
_ the exact date of the appointment.

I found M.P.D.’s testimony credible. She sat up proudly, provided eye contact to the
attorney questioning her, and did not avoid eye contact with the Respondent, She calmly
admitted when she may have been wrong on specific details rather than becoming upset or
defensive. Her testimony matched that of her 2019 interview by the Board on the details of the

_ sexual harassment, and the details as she first described them to She has
consistently stated that the Respondent told her that her breasts were large, and that her husband
must be happy about her breasts. She has never added additional allegations or facts. She has:
never filed a complaint or taken action against the Respondent. I do not find she has any reason
to embellish or falsify her testimony. I did not find her failure to recollect every detail, or to be
mistaken on some details, to detract from the credibility on her recollection of the Respondent’s
statements to her about her breasts. When she recounted the specific statements, M.P.D. took
deep breaths and appeared ashamed. Her hands shook and she appeared uncomfortable. The
effects that the Respondent’s statements had on M.P.D. clearly continue to today and bolster her
credibility as to their specific nature, The Respondent’s counsel questioned M.P.D. on several
documents that were. written entirely in English. MP.D-s inability to respond to these questions
or answer questions about medical documents and diagrams written in English was confusing
and explained by her inability to read the English language, and did not diminish her credibility.

Molly Dicken

The Board also presented the testimony of Molly Dicken, Compliance Analyst with the |

Board. Ms. Dicken has been employed by the Board for five-and-a-half years. As a compliance

analyst, Ms. Dicken investigates complaints filed with the Board. When the Board received the

1
 

Complaint, she was assigned to conduct the investigation. Ms. Dicken testified that the
Complaint was filed by ma: iii: artment after the

agi received concerning reports from various clients that they were not comfortable seeing the
Respondent for. their exams. . .

On September 19, 2018, Ms. Dicken interviewed four

Department employees, under the penalty of perjury, including Ms. (My and interpreter Ms.

Ea Ms stated during her interview that she believed the Respondent was
bilingual, speaking both English and Spanish. (Bd. Ex. 5, pgs. 20-21). Ms SEE stated
during her interview that she had been an English/Spanish interpreter for ————————EE

Eg Pepartment and ihe for fifteen years. She had accompanied patients to visits with
the Respondent and expressed that the Respondent had knowledge of the Spanish language. She
recounted that Hispanic clients were referred to the Respondent because he speaks Spanish. (Bd.
Ex. 6, pgs. 34-35), Ms. Dicken further testified that Ms Ro her that she received a
request from M.P.D. to see a doctor other than the Respondent because the Respondent had made
her uncomfortable. Ms also stated that M.P. D. sounded upset, was reluctant to give
details, but stated that the Respondent had told her that her breasts were large, and that when she
was younger, she was likely very voluptuous. Ms te heard from M.S.A.O. who

_ also requested to see a provider other than the Respondent because the Respondent had made her .
feel uncomfortable. M.S.A.0. told Ms the Respondent said to her during her
appointment that she had the breasts of a fifteen-year-old, and that her breasts were nice.
M.S.A.Q. reported to Ms RE that she saw the Respondent one more time after that

incident, but brought her daughter with her into the exam room. (Bd. Exs. 5 and 6).

12
 

Ms, Dicken subpoenaed M.P.D. and M.S.A.0.’s patient records from the Respondent and

reviewed them. She noted that the information in the record was consistent with the patient

- complaints in terms of the exams completed, and the dates of the most recent and final _
appointments. In the records, which were introduced into the record as Board Exhibits 17 and
18, the Respondent had drawn pictures of breasts throughout to indicate the dates that MPD.
and M.S.A.0. were scheduled for appointments.

On February 21, 2019, Ms. Dicken interviewed both M.P.D. and MS.A.0. M.P.D.
stated, during her interview, that the Respondent had commented on the large size of her breasts,
and that her husband must be very happy about them. M.P.D. told Ms. Dicken that the
comments made her feel bad. MS.A.0, stated during the interview that the Respondent was
nice, and a good doctor, but made her feel uncomfortable when he told her that she had the nice
breasts of a fifteen-year-old. (Bd. Exs. 12 and 13).

Finally, Ms. Dicken then recounted her interview of the Respondent on May 5, 2019.
She testified that the Réspondent reported that he did not remember M.P.D. or M.S.A.O. at all.
He stated that he could not recall saying either of the alleged statements, and that he was not sure
he could say either of the statements in the Spanish language. When Ms. Dicken asked the
Respondent what he would say to a patient who had large breasts, the Respondent replied, “T
probably don’t say anything.” (Bd. Ex. 19, pg. 184).

On cross-examination, Ms. Dicken acknowledged that in both M.P.D. and M.S.A.0.’s

' patient records, al form titled “Core Client Report” stated that each patent required an
interpreter. Ms. Dicken could not say when the form was completed, what specific appointment

it was in reference to, or who completed the form. Ms. Dicken also confirmed that Ms.

13
 

ORDERED that Julian Pappy Choe, M.D., is REPRIMANDED; and it is further
ORDERED that Dr. Choe is PERMANENTLY PROHIBITED from evaluating or
treating female patients without a chaperone. The following terms apply:

Q) The chaperone used shall not be a family member or spouse of Dr. Choe;

(2) If Dr. Choe holds a Maryland medical license, on every January 31st thereafter, Dr.
Choe shall provide the Board with:

(a) an affidavit verifying that he has had a chaperone present for every examination
or treatment of any female patient;

(b) the names of those persons who have functioned as chaperones in the past year;
and

(c) the signatures of those persons who have functioned as a chaperone in the past
month attesting that they have done so, together with the schedule of the chaperones
for the past month;

(3) If Dr. Choe fails to provide the required annual verification of compliance with this

condition:

(a) there is a presumption that Dr. Choe has violated the permanent condition of
this Order; and

(b) the alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of a show
cause hearing; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Choe is placed on PROBATION for a minimum of ONE (1) YEAR|!

During probation, Dr. Choe shall comply with the following terms and conditions of probation:
Q) Within ONE (1) YEAR, Dr. Choe is required to take and successfully complete a
course in professional boundaries. The following terms apply:

(a) it is Dr. Choe’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the disciplinary
panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

1 If Dr. Choe’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be
tolled.
 

Ee eceived the complaints from M.P.D. and M.S.A.O. within two days of one another
and further provided that Ms. WEE bclieves that was why they stood out.

I found Ms. Dicken’s testimony credible. She referenced facts that were entirely
corroborated by the other exhibits and testimony. She did not appear to have an agenda other
than to recount the facts of her investigation. She was careful in choosing her words so as not to
misstate the facts, or recount facts not relevant to this proceeding. Through questioning, the
Respondent's s attorney attempted to establish that because the Core Client Report for both
M.P.D.-and MS.A.O. stated that each patient required an interpreter, the Respondent did not
speak Spanish sufficiently enough to intentionally communicate the alleged inappropriate
statements. Ms. Dicken explained that the Core Client Report was not necessarily specific'to the
patient’s visits with the Respondent. I conclude that it is most likely that the Core Client Report
contains general information and reflects the fact that both patients would need to communicate
in Spanish with any provider. | conclude that ‘he sent Hispanic patients to the
Respondent, including MPD. and M.S.A.0. because, based on M.P.D.’s testimony and Ms.

Ezz Ms. and Ms. Dicken’s statements, the Respondent was capable of

effectively communicating in Spanish.

ws. testified on behalf of the Respondent. She is the Respondent’s wife and the
Respondent's sole co-worker at his primary care medical practice. Ms, WB bas been married
to the Respondent since 1991. She received her nursing license.in Maryland in 1986 and has
worked as a Registered Nurse, office manager and receptionist at the Respondent's practice since
. jt opened in 1997. In that role, among other things, she does administrative work, runs the .

reception desk, greets patients, takes insurance information, answers the phone, schedules

14
 

appointments, triages patients, does EKGs, preps patients for exams, and acts as the chaperone
when the Respondent performs certain exams. Ms $B estifiea that she understands basic
Spanish and would have known if the Respondent had said the alleged statements in Spanish to
the patients while she was in the room. She specifically demonstrated that she knows the words
breast, fifteen, large and the phrase, your husband is very happy in Spanish. (Transcript Volume
I, pgs. 171, 198). She testified that she cannot recall any time that the Respondent had
performed an exam on a female patient who had to disrobe without her presence as a chaperone.
She declared that she would never allow a breast exam to occur without her presence because she
is the chaperone. (Transcript, Volume I, pgs. 173, 182-183, 192, 194, 195-197).

On crogs-examination Ms. mg ecknowledged that it was in her best interest for the
Respondent to have his medical license and be able to continue working as a physician as his
practice was her family’s sole source of income. She also acknowledged that she does not
specifically remember the exams of either M.P.D. or M.S.A.O., but based her conclusion that she
was present for their exams on the fact that it is the office policy for her to be there. Ms, Ea
again testified that she would have known if the Respondent made the alleged statements.
Utilizing the Spanish language interpreter that the OAH obtained through Ad Astra, the State’s
counsel asked Ms, RM several questions in Spanish and vs could not understand or
respond to any of the questions. The State’s counsel asked, in Spanish, “when you were a young
girl, your breasts gave pleasure to your husband?” but Ms could not understand and stated
in response, “I’m not familiar with those words.” (Transcript Volume I, pg. 206). Ms.
consistently said that the Respondent had not said the alleged statements during the two breast
exams, but that if he had said those things, it would have been unprofessional. (Transcript
Volume I, pg. 172; 178-179). .

15
 

 

Overall, I did not find Ms. a be a credible witness. She had a careful, rehearsed,
robotic quality to her tone and pace. Her responses on cross-examination were evasive and
unintelligible at times. Her testimony never faltered from supporting the Respondent, but her
testimony was often contradicted by other evidence and testimony. The most obvious
contradiction was when she was unable to understand the question stated to her in Spanish which
mirrored one of the alleged statements the Respondent made, despite her testimony that she was
sure she would have known if the Respondent said a similar phrase. She also testified to the
office policy that all breast exams and pap smears were performed in her presence, without

exception, since the time the office opened. i statement that they have always,
steadfastly, followed the policy because it would be improper to do otherwise, was contradicted
by the Respondent in his interview with Ms. Dicken. During that interview, the Respondent
referred to a past similar allegation and stated that the policy was adopted, or at least strictly
adhered to, in response to that prior allegation. The exchange was as follows:

Respondent: It’s a very small room. She would hear. She would see everything I

do. And then, as you mentioned, I’m very paranoid about the [Board of

Physicians] thing after that incident. And I am absolutely paranoid about the

whole female thing. And then we made some changes and my typical practice

does not deviate because I —

Ms. Dicken: What changes did you make after that, I guess?

Respondent: For example, I follow the guidelines as I told you about the breast

exam, the pap smear. And actually, J do not see, I do not go or even talk to

patient until [Ms says they are ready.

Bd. Ex. 19 pg. 186.

 

8 This exchange references a patient allegation previous to those in this case. This previous allegation was not
addressed during the hearing, and reference to jt was redacted. I do not know the facts, including the date, of the
previous allegation as they were redacted. It is my understanding that this allegation was dismissed. 1 did not
consider any facts regarding the previous allegation, or the fact that there was & previous allegation, in making this
decision. : ,

16

 
 

 

Ms Bi cstitica that she could not remember the exams with either M.P.D. or

M.S.A.O., but based her conclusions concerning the two patient allegations on the premise that
the Respondent would never preform a breast exam without her present, and that she would have
known if the Respondent had made the alleged statements, even if they were made in Spanish.

However, the Record is clear that despite her view that it is unethical to perform a breast
exam without a chaperone, there was a time when it was done in the Respondent’s practice. It is
also clear that Ms. ag would not have necessarily understood the alleged statements if made
in Spanish. For these reasons, coupled with her acknowledged invested interest in the outcome

of this proceeding, I did not give her testimony much weight.

The Respondent called Ele as a witness. Ms. (RRM is a loan officer in

Frederick, She was referred to see the Respondent for weight-loss in 2004. She saw him and
referred her daughter to see him as well. ms J testified that as her physician, he was kind
and that she had no sense that he was sexually objectifying her. In 2011, Ms. BEB created a
non-profit, a: with the mission of creating a safety net for women battling cancer. As
part ja she contracted with the Respondent to see women who fall outside the
guidelines for the In that role, the Respondent had seen 160 patients as of the end-of
2019 and continues to receive referrals. Ms. [EMM stated that she has never received a
_ complaint about the Respondent, and that if she knew the things that were alleged were true, she
would not continue making referrals to him. (Transcript Vol. II, pgs. 11-12).

On cross-examination, Ms. a acknowledged that she has never referred a Spanish
speaking patient to the Respondent. She admitted that she chose him fo: based on

her personal experience with him, but had not run a background check and was unaware that he

17
 

had been found in violation of a standard of care in 2004, or of dispensing medication without a
license in 20142 ‘She was likewise not aware that the Department had
filed the Complaint against the Respondent in 2018. Finally, she admitted that [ERNE does
not have a protocol or procedure in place to receive a complaint from its participants.

Ms SRS testimony was credible, She spoke from her experience and credibly
offered her impressions of the Respondent based on her interactions with him. It is important to
note, that to compare Ms. BR exrerience with that of M.P.D. and M.S.A.O, they are
clearly members of different demographics. Specifically, demographics that can factor into the
analysis of a power dynamic, as is important in the overall analysis of this case. Ms. —
appeared to be a Caucasian woman with blonde hair and blue eyes. ‘She is English speaking and
quite a bit younger than either M.P.D. or M.S.A.0. Ms oes also not a participant in a
service providing free and reduced medical exams, so she more likely than not had a greater
choice in selecting her medical providers. For all of these reasons, I do not find her particular
experience to give much insight into the Respondent’s overall demeanor with non-English
speaking Hispanic woman who are participants in a program for free medical care. However,
Ms. RR interactions go beyond her personal experience as his patient, but also include her
daughter’s experience, and any feedback she has received from the [EJ participants who
have seen him. It appears the Respondent has been positively involved with the program
because there have not been any complaints against the Respondent from HE te ferred
patients; however, Ihave also considered the fact that does not have a protocol or

mechanism for receiving complaints from patients referred to the Respondent. : Additionally, the

 

° Facts about the prior charges and dispositions were allowed, over the Respondent’s objection, for the purposes of
assessing a penalty, and will be addressed in greater detail later in the decision.

18
 

 

Ee patients are desperate for care. Ms. BEE sities ihat one vatient in particular
returned from her appointment with the Respondent weeping because she desperately needed a
_biopsy and was so'relieved the Respondent had agreed to take care of her during this time.
(Transcript Vol. II, pg. 11). Itis possible that such patients would so value the care they were
receiving that they would not complain, even if they felt uncomfortable. This possibility did not
factor into my decision making because there was no evidence of poor behavior towards the
a participants was presented, but it is important to note that in the instance of those
_ patients, and thea patients, there is a distinct power differential created by the desperation
of the patients for free services, and the ability and willingness of the Respondent to provide that
care, that cannot be ignored. I find Ms. =a testimony credible that the Respondent does
not act inappropriately with all of his patients, which was not the allegation by the Board. The
fact that there have not been complaints from other patients is not dispositive as to how the

Respondent behaved with M.P.D. or M.S.A.O. on the dates in question.

The Respondent called TT -s a witness. Ms se to live a.
Maryland and worked for Se ttsC as an English/Spanish

interpreter. She started as a volunteer in 1995, working sporadically, and worked as a part-time
employee for approximately ten years starting in or about 1996. Ms. ) | interpreted for the .
Respondent’s patients starting in or about 1998. During that time, she would go with
‘approximately two patients a week to see the Respondent. During breast exams, Ms.
would go into the exam room with the patient, the Respondent, and Ms a. Her role was to ,

interpret, and she would try not to observe the procedure. She said that the Respondent would

19
 

_have basic conversations with the patients in Spanish and at that time, his Spanish was very
basic, but that he was obviously taking steps to improve. She said that, based on her experience
in his office, she thought it would be very uncharacteristic of the Respondent to say something of
a sexual nature. /
On cross-examination, Mss BBB acknowledged that the last time she interpreted for the
: Respondent was fourteen years ago. She said that between 1998 and 2006, the Respondent went
on mission trips to Central America and the Caribbean and took classes so that he could get
exposure to different dialects of Spanish, and that he was obviously trying to improve his
Spanish during that time.

Ms. aeestimony was credible. She spoke from her experience and credibly
offered her impressions of the Respondent based on her interactions with him. Ms. Bee could
not provide insight on the Respondent’s current demeanor with patients, or his current Spanish
fluency. One could easily conclude that his Spanish is significantly better than it was fourteen
years ago as he has continued the same steps to improve his Spanish over those fourteen yeats _
including taking college courses, visiting Spanish-speaking countries on mission trips at least
three times a year, conversing regularly with Spanish-speaking patients, and attending a church

| in the Hispanic community. I found Ms Restimony credible to establish that the
Respondent has not acted inappropriately with all of his patients, and to establish that the
Respondent has actively sought to improve his Spanish for the. past twenty-plus years, sohis
Spanish proficiency in 2017 would have been better than “basic.” |
Respondent
The Respondent testified in his own behalf. He has been licensed to practice medicine in

Maryland since 1994. ‘He was born in Seoul, South Korea and his native language is Korean.

20 .
 

He came to the United States with his family when he was fourteen years old, He attended
eighth grade and completed high school and college in the United States. He became more
comfortable with the Eriglish language during his second year of college, and then completed
medical school in an English-language program. He testified that he also speaks Spanish and
described his proficiency as being at a first or second grade level. (Transcript Vol. II, pg. 21).
He explained that he took some Spanish language classes in college in the 1970s. The
Respondent opened his medical practice in 1997. He obtained a contract with the several
months later and realized that most of = patients spoke only Spanish. To better facilitate .
his communication with those patients, he took Spanish language courses at Frederick .
Community College. In 2004, he started going on mission trips with his church to Spanish-
speaking countries including Guatemala and the Dominican Republic, and was once abroad for

_ forty days. He also attends a church in the Hispanic community. (Bd. Ex. 19, pg. 186).

The Respondent explained that his primary practice is in internal medicine as a primary
care physician, but that he also provides a weight loss program and, prior to losing the contract in
2018, the rest of his practice involved thelflMland another similar program, thel.°

The Respondent explained that Ms. is the Registered Nurse, the receptionist, and
runs everything in the medical office, including acting as the chaperone during breast and -
cervical exams. He stated that since his medical residency, he understood that if he does any
procedures requiring a female to disrobe, that a chaperone must be present, (Transcript Vol. Hl,
pgs. 29-30, 43). He testified that the concept was “not just training, but common sense.”

(Transcript Vol. Il, pg. 30). The. Respondent acknowledged that he does not have any

 

0 is a EEE Department program providing free colo-rectal exams and colonoscopies for
low-income patients.

21
 

independent recollection of either M.P.D. or MS.A.0. and his testimony is based on custom and
routine. He stated that he could not recall a time when Ms. EERE was not present during such an.
exam. He added anecdotally that in order to ensure that Ms. EBB is able to be present in the
exam room, she brings along a wireless phone and takes calls during the exams. (Transcript Vol
Il, pg. 44). The Respondent denied making the statements that M.P.D. and M.S.A.0. alleged,
and said he would never say such things in front of his wife.

On cross-examination, the Respondent testified that while he had che contract, he
spoke Spanish with about twenty percent of his patients, but now that the contract has been
terminated, Spanish-speaking patients make up “zero percent” of his practice. (Transcript Vol,
IL, pg. 67). He stated that he did not remember either M.P.D. or M.S.A.O., even when he saw
MPD. in person during her testimony, and therefore must rely on his medical records to provide
information about his experience with them. He stated that he is sure he did not make the
alleged comments because “it just doesn’t sound right, does not sound professional...I don’t
make those kinds of comments. I don’t even say those things to my own wife.” (Transcript Vol.
Il, pg. 45, 74). He agreed that, during his interview with Ms. Dicken, he had volunteered that he
could have said what was alleged. Specifically, he stated, “It is possible, because of the
" language, maybe I say something. 1 don’t know, maybe it was conceived a different way. Once
again, even though I have limited Spanish it can be misunderstood, ..” (Bd. Ex. 19, pg. 186). He
agreed that he might have said something that was misinterpreted or misunderstood. He also
agreed that if he had said those things intentionally, it would have constituted harassment.

(Transcript Vol. II, pg. 46).

22

 
 

I found that the Respondent downplayed his proficiency in Spanish in order to support
the argument that he either could not have said the things that were alleged, or that he could have
easily said something he did not mean. The Respondent testified that after five years in the
United States, he was able to complete an undergraduate degree at a university in the United
States. He stated that two years after college, he felt proficient in English. He also proudly
testified about his dedication to learning the Spanish language including taking multiple college
courses in Spanish, attending mission trips in Spanish-speaking countries at least three times a
year for the past sixteen years where he speaks Spanish as much as possible, and speaking with
his patients in Spanish for at least the past ten years. Additionally, he attends a church in the

_ Hispanic community, In comparing the amount of time it took him to become proficient in the
English language, it is unreasonable to conclude his Spanish proficiency, after more than sixteen
years of regular practice, does not include such words as breast, husband, fifteen-year-old,
happy, and large, or that he could unintentionally stumble into saying, “you have the breasts of a
fifteen-year old” or “your large breasts must make your husband very happy” during a routine
breast exam where the dialogue is presumably routine and repetitive. The Respondent testified
that the conversations he has during these’exams are routine and include “the same sentences
I’ve been saying for years.” (Transcript Vol. II, pg. 23). tt is impossible to fathom, in these
routine and brief exchanges, that after more than ten years the Respondent would unintentionally
make unprofessional comments in Spanish and not realize his mistake. His concerted effort to
diminish his Spanish ability to support his position, raises questions about his credibility overall.

Similar to Ms. | testimony, the Respondent testified that he could not remember
the exams with either M.P.D. or M.S.A.O., but based his conclusions concerning the allegations

on the premise that he would never perform a breast exam without Ms SEE presence, and

23
 

(b) the disciplinary panel will accept a course taken in-person or over the internet
during the state of emergency

(c) Dr. Choe must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that Dr. Choe
has successfully completed the course;

(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal;

(e) Dr. Choe is responsible for the cost of the course.
(2) Within ONE (1) YEAR, Dr. Choe shall pay a civil fine of $10,000.00. The
Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland
Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The
Board will not renew or reinstate Dr. Choe’s license if Dr. Choe fails to timely pay the fine
to the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Choe shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after Dr. Choe has complied with all terms and conditions of probation
and the minimum period of probation imposed by this Order has passed, Dr. Choe may submit to
the Board a written petition for termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the
probation may be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel. Dr. Choe may be required
to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary
panel may grant the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel,
if Dr. Choe has complied with all probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending
complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is

further
 

 

that he would not have made the statements in front Ms. Higa ccause she would have known,
even if they were made in Spanish. However, as addressed previously, the Record is clear that
despite the Respondent’s belief that it is unprofessional to perform a breast exam without a
chaperone, there was a time when it was done in thé Respondent’s practice, or at least a time
when the policy was not strictly followed. The Record is also clear that Ms. would not /
have necessarily understood the alleged statements if they were made in Spanish. - Further, it is
highly likely that Ms SE would have been distracted during an exam because she is
responsible for many things in the office and multi-tasks, even bringing a phone into the exam
room to take calls. If Ms. cre on the phone during an exam, there is little likelihood that
she would have also been able to recognize phrases that were being said in Spanish. |

There were other inconsistencies between the Respondent’s testimony and his previous
interview with Ms. Dicken which was given under oath. In that interview, the Respondent
explained, “I have.an extensive amount of Spanish patients other than the a program.” (Bd.
Ex. 19, pg. 186). In testimony at the hearing, the Respondent said that without the mam
contract, Spanish speaking patients make up “zero percent” of his practice. (Transcript Vol. I,
pg..67). This is a small discrepancy, but illustrates the Respondent’s inability to accurately
describe and characterize his practice. Problems with the Respondent’s characterizations
continue with his explanation of his Spanish-language proficiency. The Respondent categorized
his ability to speak Spanish at a “first or second grade level,” or less. (Transcript Vol. IL, pg. 21).
Ms: RR categorized the Respondents ability to be at a “second or third grade level.”
(Transcript Vol. I, pg. 179). It was never clear what metrics either used to come to those
conclusions, but regardless, the words the Respondent was alleged to have said were all basic
_ vocabulary that a physician who regularly speaks to Spanish-speaking patients during breast

. 24 .
 

- exams, would have known. The Respondent argued that Ms a. who everyone agreed spoke
very little Spanish, would have most certainly known if the Respondent had said the alleged
statements because, as she demonstrated at the beginning of her testimony, she knew the words
contained in those phrases. (Transcript Vol. I, pg. 41). In striking contradiction, the Respondent
argued that those same words were too advanced for his ‘Spanish speaking ability, and were not
words included in his vocabulary. He testified that such phrases would require a “300 level
Spanish” (Transcript Vol. I, pg. 43), alluding to the college-level course one would have to have
taken'to be able to say the phrases alleged. Additionally, in his interview with Ms. Dicken, the
Respondent said that despite having extensive numbers of Spanish-speaking patients, and
communicating with them in Spanish, he has never received a complaint that he does not speak
Spanish well, or should not speak Spanish. (Bd. Ex. 19, pg. 186). His characterization on one
hand, that he has very limited Spanish proficiency, while on the other, that he communicates ©
with an “extensive amount of Spanish patients” and receives “no complaints” about his Spanish
proficiency, points to a disconnect and leads me to conclude that he is hot providing an accurate
evaluation of his ability in the Spanish language.

The Respondent failed to present any credible testimony proving, or suggesting that he
did not, or could not have, made the statements as alleged. .
Prior Board charges against the Respondent!!

The Respondent addressed the two previous charges brought by the Board; in both cases

the Respondent entered into Consent Orders, The first charge stemmed from an incident on

 

) Evidence and testimony regarding the previous Board charges was allowed for the purposes of analyzing the
appropriate Sanctions. : .

25

 
 

 

Respondent’s hospital privileges and submitted an Adverse Action Report to the Board. The
report detailed that the Respondent administered an injection of allergy serum to a twenty-three-
year-old Patient, despite not having antidote medication available, after which the patient had an
anaphylactic reaction and died. The Board issued charges against the Respondent on February
24, 1996 and the Respondent entered into a Consent Order on October 23, 1996. In addition to
the above facts, the Board also found that the Respondent altered the medical record entry in the
chart on the date of the incident to change the dose given from .5 cc to .05 cc. The Consent
Order notes that the Respondent disputes that he altered the medical record entry. The Consent
Order concluded that:
The Respondent willfully made or filed a false report or record in the

practice of medicine in violation of Mad. Code Ann. Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11);

nn The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards as determined by

appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical care performed in an

office in this State in violation of Md. Code Ann. Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(22).
(Bd. Ex. 22, pg. 235). . |
. The Consent Order required that the Respondent’s license be suspended for ninety days,
but stayed the:suspension and ordered that the Respondent be placed on probation for three
years; attend a Board-approved course on anaphylaxis and allergic reactions and response;
perform one-hundred hours of community service; remain current in advanced cardiac life
support certification at all times during his medical licensure in Maryland; submit, during
probation, a written list of on-site emergency medications and supplies available at his medical

office; and undergo peer review to include an on-site inspection of emergency medications and

supplies approximately one year after the date of the Consent Order. Because of this charge, the

26
 

Respondent was precluded from taking an exam to become Board certified. (Transcript Vol. II,
pg. 60).

The Respondent testified that he entered the 1996 Consent Order based on the advice of
ineffective legal counsel. He said that he believed it should have veer Hospitar’s
responsibility, and not his, to ensure that his medical office was fully stocked.’ He denied
altering the medical record. He stated that he entered into the Consent Order because, at the
time, he “wanted to sign the paper and be done with it.” (Transcript Vol. I, pg. 54). On cross-
examination, he explained that at the time of the incident, he was working for the hospital in a

_ remote office and that he felt it was the hospital’s responsibility to ensure the office was
equipped in the same way that a doctor who worked on the hospital campus would not be
responsible for ensuring the hospital had x-ray machines and syringes. (Transcript Vol, Il, pgs.

~ 50-54; 80-83).

The second charge resulted following the Board’s finding that the Respondent dispensed
prescription medication without a permit. On March 15, 201 1, the Board issued the Respondent
a permit to dispense prescription medications. The Respondent failed to file an application to .
renew the license and it expired on March 13, 2016. The Respondent continued to dispense
prescription medication after the permit expired, He reapplied for a permit on June 3, 2016. The
Respondent entered into a Consent Order on October 19, 2016. The Consent Order found that:

[The Respondent] failed to comply with § 12-102 of the Health

Occupations Article in violation of § 14-404(a)(28) of the Health Occupations

Article. Section 12-102 of the Health Occupations Article requires that a

physician dispensing prescription medication or devices has a permit issued by

the Board,

(Bd. Ex. 21, pg. 226). °

The Consent Order required that the Respondent pay a $3,000.00 fine.

27
 

 

 

Analysis ,

The case was well-presented by both sides. The issues regarding alleged immoral and
unprofessional conduct largely involve a credibility determination. As addressed above, neither ’
M.P.D. nor MS.A.0. had an incentive to falsify their allegations, remained consistent in their
recollection of what occurred, did not embellish their experience and, in the case of M.P.D.,
provided testimony in a manner that evoked trustworthiness. For these reasons, J find that their
allegations were credible. During a breast exam, the Respondent spoke to M.P.D. in Spanish and
told her that her breasts were large, and that her husband must have been very happy with her
breasts. During a breast exam, the Respondent spoke to M.S.A.O. in Spanish and told her that
she had the breasts of a fifteen-year old,

The Respondent raised a concern that both M.P.D. and M.S.A.O. knew Ms. [aim
outside of the program because they all attended the same church. The Respondent
bolstered this argument by alleging that it was too coincidental that the two allegations came
within days of one another, and a year or more after the alleged incident occurred. M.P. D.
testified that while she knew which church Ms. Ee attended, they did not attend the si same
chutch. (Transcript Vol. I, pg. 65). The Record does not include any evidence of collusion
between M.P.D., M. S.A. 0. and Ms. | or what incentive the three of them would have
fo create the allegations against the Respondent. The timing of both of the reports a 1 yeat or more
after the alleged incident is explained by the fact that both allegations were in response to Ms.

Ezz calls to schedule the patient’s annual appointments. The fact that the two were in
close proximity could be a coincidence, or it could underscore why the statements stood out to
Ms. nd prompted her to make the report to the _ Regardless, there is no proof

or evidence in the Record that the patients’ allegations were anything other than truthful.

28
 

 

The Respondent also raised the argument that M.P.D. and M.S.A.O. lacked credibility
because they never reported their concerns to the Respondent or Ms ll. He also raised the
argument that M.P.D.’s allegation lacked credibility because her husband had not confronted the

Respondent after she reported the incident to him. M.P.D, and M.S.A.0. both expressed feelings
of embarrassment and shame based on the Respondent’s statements. They were also participants
ina County program providing free medical services that they relied on. It is certainly not a
requirement that a victim, or victim’s family, confront her abuser directly in order for her
allegations to be believed. That is perhaps heightened in the case of a power imbalance as that in
the instant scenario. M.P.D. and M.S.A.0. did not intend to press charges, file a complaint or
seek damages, They only raised the concerns to avoid returning to see the Respondent. Their
motivation in making the reports, consistency in their accusations, and disinterest to seek some
sort of benefit from the report only bolsters their credibility.

There is no question that the statements were made in the practice of medicine. The
statements were made by a physician during breast exams of patients.

The final inquiry is whether it matters to the issues regarding alleged immoral and
unprofessional conduct if the Respondent made the statements with lewd intent. The Respondent
argued that if he did make the statements, it was an accidental and unfortunate mistake caused by
his poor usage of the Spanish language, and never intended as harmful.

The Board offered no direct legal authority to support its contention that the statements
violated sections 14-404(a)(3) (i) and (ii) of the Health Occupations Article. They argued that
intent is not required by the statute if the action itself is immoral or unprofessional. The Board’s
sexual misconduct regulation defines “sexual harassmen as “an unwelcome sexual advance,

request for sexual favor, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.” COMAR

29 |

 
 

10.32.17.02(B)(4). Based on that definition, if the act on its face is verbal or physical conduct of
a sexual nature, it does not appear to require that there be an intent. |

The Board also pointed to the Respondent’s testimony where he stated that, if the
statements were made by a doctor to a patient during a breast exam, they would be
unprofessional and unethical. The Merriam- Webster Dictionary defines “immoral” as __
“conflicting with generally or traditionally held moral principles.” Merriam-Webster-Online
Dictionary. 2020. http://merriam-webster.com (27 September 2020), It defines “unprofessional”

- as “characterized by or conforming to the technical or ethical standards of a profession.” Jd.
Both of these definitions underscore the conclusion that ifthe act on its face would be considered
by a reasonable person to be verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature, there is no
requirement that the actor be shown to have intended that response.

There was a consensus between the witnesses that, if the statements were made, they
would have been unprofessional and problematic. Ms. Ea agreed in her testimony that if she
had heard the Respondent make such a statement, she would be taken aback, would tell the
Respondent that it was inappropriate, and might apologize to the patient. (Transcript Vol. f, ‘pe.
172), Ms. Ea clearly felt the statements were inappropriate because they prompted her to
make a formal report to the program. Ms testified that she would not continue to
send patients to the Respondent if she knew he had made these statements. (Transcript Vol. I,
pgs. 11-12). Finally, Ms ifestitiea that if she heard anything like the alleged statements,

‘she would have immediately made a report to her superiors. (Transcript Vol. II, pg. 105).

Most importantly, the comments affected M.P.D. and M.S.A.0. in a way that harmed .

them by causing them to feel ashamed, uncomfortable and embarrassed. These emotions

continued a year later when they were each prompted to request a different physician. They

30

 
 

continued for M.P.D. several years later as she recounted the statements during her testimony.
Her proud posture diminished, her hands shook, and her voice wavered as she sheepishly
repeated the phrases and remembered the harassment. As stated previously, I do not find that the
Respondent lacked a sexualized intent when he made the statements. The Respondent had more
than ten years of experience with the Spanish language at the time he made the statements and
could not have possibly made them unintentionally. The statements cannot be construed to have
anything other than lewd intent in the context ofa breast exam. As the Respondent testified,
there would be no medical reason for the comments (Transcript Vol. II, pgs. 45-46), and
therefore they were meant to objectify and sexualize the patient’s breasts. However, even
without sexualized intent, the statements were unprofessional and immoral because they were
outside ‘the scope of the breast exam. Further, if the Respondent was so uncertain about his
ability in the Spanish language such that he believed he could accidentally sexually harass his
patients during a breast exam, it was unprofessional and immoral to attempt to speak to them in
Spanish rather than utilizing an interpreter. The Respondent’s behavior violated sections 14-
404(a)(3)(i) (immoral conduct in the practice of medicine) and 4-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional
conduct in'the practice of medicine) and the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations under
COMAR 10.32.17,
Sanctions

The Board seeks to impose the following disciplinary sanction:

The Respondent shall be reprimanded and placed on probation for one year with ©

the following terms and conditions: 1) a course on appropriate boundaries to be

completed within six months; 2) a chaperone when treating female patients; and

3) a $10,000.00 fine.

COMAR 10.32,02.10B(3)(a); COMAR 10.32.17.02. -

31
 

I have found that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional and immoral conduct in the
practice of medicine, and violated the Board’s sexual misconduct regulation by engaging in
sexual harassment as defined by COMAR 10.32.17.02(2). Based on those conclusions, the
Board’s sanctioning guidelines provide for a minimum sanction of reprimand, and a maximum
sanction of revocation. The guidelines provide for a minimum fine of $10,000.00 and a
maximum fine of $50,000.00. The Board seeks to impose the minimum sanction and minimum
fine available to them based on these charges.

The Respondent has a prior disciplinary history. He has been charged by the Board on
two previous occasions, once in 1996 and once in 2016. The Respondent demonstrated a
concerning lack of remorse of acceptance of responsibility for each of these incidents. The
Respondent blamed the 1996 incident on the hospital for failing to inventory the stock of his
remote office, and his ineffective attorney. In that incident, a twenty-three-year-old patient died
after receiving allergy injections for pollen and mites when she went into anaphylactic shock and
the Respondent did not have the appropriate antidote to treat her. He greatly downplayed his
role in the incident and did not accept responsibility. The Respondent’s counsel likewise
downplayed the 2016 incident where he prescribed medication without a license for several
months. Finally, in the instant case, the Respondent alleged that the patients either made up the
allegations against him, or misunderstood him due to his poor grasp of the Spanish language.
This is the Respondent’s third violation and accordingly, COMAR 10.32.02.07 supports a fine of

$10,000.00 as proposed by the Board.

32
 

In addition to the prior record (COMAR 10.32.02.09(B)(6)(a)), there are other
aggravating factors that should impact the determination of a sanction and fine for these charges.
First, the conduct was either committed intentionally, or with gross recklessness. I find the
Respondent made the statements with a lewd intent. If the Board finds that the Respondent did
not have such intent, but misspoke when he made the statements, then he heedlessly spoke to two
separate patients about the size and shape of their breasts, in a manner that could lead to such
misstatements and harm, rather than employing the use of either an in-person, video or
telephonic interpreter. Such behavior is likewise reckless. COMAR 10,32.02.09(B)(6)(b).
Secondly, the Respondent’s behavior caused harm to his patients and to the public. M.P.D. and
M.S.A.O. both experienced lasting feelings of discomfort, embarrassment and shame as a result
of the Respondent’s actions. The Respondent had to be removed from the roster of available
physicians for the fH program as a result of his actions, which caused harm to the
community. COMAR 10.32.02.09(B)(6)(c). Thirdly, the Respondent’s behavior targeted
particularly vulnerable patients. The two victims were non-English speaking patients who-were
enrolled in a program for individuals requiring free medical care. Additionally, both patients
were of advanced age. “All of these factors make them particularly vulnerable and susceptible of
abuse by those in a The Respondent had power for many reasons, but most specifically
because the victims needed the services he was providing, and lacked the ability to easily ,
advocate for themselves due to language barriers. COMAR 10.32.02.09(B)(6)(g).

Tn light of my findings, I recommend that the grounds for the Board’s proposed penalty

of a Reprimand has been supported.

33
ORDERED that, if Dr. Choe allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition imposed
by this Order, Dr. Choe shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary
panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an
Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions
process before a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Choe shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary
panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that Dr.
Choe has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary panel
may reprimand Dr. Choe, place Dr. Choe on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or
suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke Dr. Choe’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth
above, impose a civil monetary fine on Dr. Choe; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Choe is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee signs
this Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and

Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

tf ete Lae Signature on File
04/04 (202!

Date Christine A. Faurelly,” Exécutive Directoy]
Maryland Board of Physici

 
 

 

Given the level of unprofessionalism and immorality displayed by commenting ‘on his
patients’ breasts in a sexualized mamer, I also find that a fine is appropriate and that the grounds
for the Board’s proposed fine of $10,000.00 has been supported.

Finally, as recommended by the Board, the Respondent shall also be required to 1)
complete a course on appropriate boundaries within six months of the date of the final order and
2) utilize a chaperone whenever he is treating female patients. |

. PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of law
that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct, and immoral conduct. Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) (Supp. 2020) and is in violation of the Board’s sexual

‘misconduct regulation. COMAR 10.32.17. As a result, I conclude that the Respondent is subject
to disciplinary sanction of a Reprimand for the cited violations. Id., COMAR
10.32.02.09A(3)(a)(ii). I further conclude that the Respondent is subject to a fine of $10,000.00
for the cited violations. COMAR 10.32.02.09A(3)(a) (iii).

. PROPOSED DISPOSITION

I PROPOSE that the charge filed by the Maryland State Board ‘of Physicians against the
Respondent on February 28, 2020, for unprofessional conduct be UPHELD; and

The charge filed for immoral conduct be UPHELD; and

The charge for violation of the Board’s sexual misconduct vegulation | be UPHELD; and

I PROPOSE that the Respondent be sanctioned by imposition of a Reprimand; and

34

 
 

 

I PROPOSE that the Respondent be ordered to pay a fine of $10,000.00; and the
Respondent shail also be required to 1) complete a course on appropriate boundaries within six
months of the date of the final order and 2) use a chaperone whenever he is treating female

patients.

Mlcee Pusaby, Tas
December 29, 2020
Date Decision Issued Alecia Frisby Trout
Administrative Law Judge

 

AFT/sw
4489716

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

 

Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may file written exceptions with
the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the captioned
case to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH) and request a hearing on the exceptions,
Mad. Code Ann., State Gov’ t § 10-216(a) (2014); COMAR 10.32.02.05. Exceptions must be
filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order, COMAR
10,32.02,05B(1), The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary
Panel of the Board of Physicians, 420! Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Attn:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director.

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attorney, and the other party
will have fifteen.(15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response addressed as
above. Id. The disciplinary panel will issue a final order following the exceptions hearing or
other formal panel proceedings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-216, 10-221 (2014);
COMAR 10.32.02.05 C. The OAH is not a party to any review process,

35
 

Copies Mailed To:

‘Julian P. Choe, MD

Bradford Roegge, Esq.
11:North Washington Street
Suite 400

Rockville, MD 20850

K. F. Michael Kao, Assistant Attorney General

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Roen Taylor, Assistant Attorney General

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Compliance Administration

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, MD 21215

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer
Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General:
300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201

Nicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

36
 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Choe has the right to seek judicial
review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this Order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review
shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §
10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If Dr. Choe files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
Stacey Darin
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
Exhibit 1
MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF * BEFORE ALECIA FRISBY TROUT,

PHYSICIANS ‘ * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE

 

v. * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE
JULIAN P. CHOE, M.D. * OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
RESPONDENT : * OAH No.: MDH-MBP2-71-20-13233

LICENSE No.: D45519 * MBP No.: 2218-0265

* * * * * * * x * * *

PROPOSED DECISION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
; PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
: DISCUSSION.
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW.
- PROPOSED DISPOSITION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

 

On February 28, 2020 a disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians

(Board) issued charges against Julian P, Choe, M.D. (Respondent) alleging violations of the
State law governing the practice of medicine. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 through
14-508, and 14-601 through 14-607 (2014 & Supp. 2020). Specifically, the Respondent is
charged with violating sections 14-404(a)(3)(i) (immoral conduct in the practice of medicine)
and 4-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine), and the Board’s sexual
misconduct regulations under the Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.17. The
disciplinary panel to which the complaint was assigned held a meeting with the Respondent on
June 10, 2020 to explore the possibility of resolution, COMAR 10.32.02.03E(9). The parties

. did not resolve the issues at that time. On June 19, 2020, the matter was delegated ‘to the Office

of Administrative Hearings (OAH) for issuance of proposed findings of fact, proposed
 

conclusions of law, and a proposed disposition. COMAR 10.32.02.03E(5); COMAR
10.32,02.04B(1). .

I held a hearing on October 6-7, 2020, at the OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland. Health
Oce. § 14-405(a) (Supp. 2020); COMAR 10.32.02.04. Bradford Roegge, Esquire, represented
the Respondent, who was present. K, F. Michael Kao, Assistant Attorney General, and Roen
Taylor, Assistant Attorney General, represented the State of Maryland (State). At the conclusion
of the State’s case, the Respondent made a Motion for Judgment. I denied that Motion on the
Record, COMAR 28.02.01.12B(6).

Procedure in this case is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings Before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the OAH. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’ t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2014 & Supp.
2020); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.

ISSUES

 

1.. Is the Respondent guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine?
“2. Is the Respondent guilty of immoral conduct in the practice of medicine?

3. Is the Respondent guilty of sexual misconduct in the practice of medicine?

4. If so, what sanctions, if any, are appropriate?

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE |

 

Exhibits
L admitted the following exhibits into evidence on behalf of the Board:
Bd. Ex.1- | Maryland Board of Physician Report of Investigation, August 16, 2019

Bd. Ex. 2 - Complaint, received June 1, 2018
 

Bd. Ex. 3 -

Bd, Ex. 4-

Bd. Ex. 5 -

Bd. Ex. 6 -

 

Bd. Ex. 7 -
Bd. Ex. 8 -

Bd. Ex. 9 -
Bd. Ex. 10 -
Bd. Bx. 11 -
Bd. Ex. 12 -
Bd. Ex, 13 -

Bd. Ex, 14 -

Bd. Bx. 15-

Bd, Ex. 16 -
Bd, Ex. 17 -
"Bd. Ex. 18 -
Bd. Ex. 19 -
Bd, Ex. 20 -

Bd, Ex. 21 -

 

Bd. Ex. 22 -

— 9 Molly Dicken, [zanna SEU ,
am , August 7, 2018 -

Email chain between =a and Molly Dicken, August 14, 2018
Interview Transcript of a. September 19, 2018

Interview Transcript ii. September 19, 2018

Progress Notes, Patient
B, June 2007 — July 2018

ee
A, November 2011 — June 2018

Letter from the aa to Patient B, January 25, 2019!
Letter from the Lee to Patient A, January 25, 2019?
Interview Transcript of RE February 21, 2019

Interview Transcript | February 21, 2019

Interview Transcript off February 21, 2019
Letter from i iii a © the Respondent, April 5, 2019

Information Form, April 13, 2019

Employee list from the Respondent, April 15, 2019

Medical Records from the Respondent for Patient A, certified on April 17, 2019
Medical Records from the Respondent for Patient B, certified on April 17, 2019
Interview Transcript of the Respondent, May 5, 2019

Board Licensing File for the Respondent, printed August 15, 2019

Consent Order in Case number 2016-1028, October 19, 2016

Consent Order in Case number 96-0079, October 1, 1996

 

! Letter is in Spanish and no translation was provided
2 Letter is in Spanish and no translation was provided

3
