 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
DANIEL J. BOCHICCHIO, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D46256 Case Number: 2218-0014A
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) voted to summarily suspend the medical license of Daniel Bochicchio, M.D.,
(the “Respondent’), License Number D46256, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Govt §
10-226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.) concluding that the public health, safety
or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

Panel A also voted to charge the Respondent under the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the "Act"), Md. Code Ann., Heath Occ. Il §§ 14-404(a)(3)(ii) - Is guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (4) - Is professionally, physically, or
mentally incompetent; (8) - Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or
controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article; (11) -
Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of medicine; and (21) - Is
disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority or convicted or disciplined by any
branch of the United States uniformed services or the Veterans’ Administration for an
act that would be grounds for disciplinary action under this section. (2014 Repl. Vol. &
2016 Supp.).

Prior to the issuance of an Order of Summary Suspension and charges, the
Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order and Consent.
 

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel A finds:

1.

At all times relevant, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland on June 22, 1994. His license is scheduled to expire on September 30,
2018.

The Respondent is board-certified in anesthesiology.

From October 2016 to June 2017, the Respondent was employed at a federal
facility (the “Facility’) in a state other than Maryland.

In June 2017, the Facility terminated the Respondent for diverting for his own use
a quantity of a Controlled Dangerous Substance. The Respondent obtained the
drug by misrepresentation. Specifically, the Respondent falsely entered patient
information and a specific quantity of the drug to be used in a medical procedure.
The Respondent has been indicted in federal court on several counts of obtaining
the drug by misrepresentation, fraud, deception and subterfuge.’

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the foregoing facts, Disciplinary Panel A concludes that the public

health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to

Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.). Panel A

also concludes that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of

medicine; is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; is addicted to, or

1 To maintain confidentiality, specific information regarding the Respondent's conduct will not be
referenced in this document. The Respondent may obtain from the Administrative Prosecutor documents
related to these instances.

2
 

habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101
of the Criminal Law Article; willfully made or filed a false report or record in the practice
of medicine, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(3(ii), (4), (8) and
(11), respectively; and was disciplined by any branch of the United States uniformed
services or the Veterans’ Administration for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary
action under this section. The acts of diversion for which the Respondent was
terminated by the federal Facility, would, if committed in Maryland, constitute
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. Il. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), and subject him to discipline pursuant to Health Occ. Il § 14-
404(a)(21) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.).
ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary
Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent's license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED,
subject to the following terms and conditions:
1. The Respondent shail enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(‘MPRP”). Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall
enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of
MPRP'’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and

conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation
 

Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested or required by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the
telease/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board, including disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP.
The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol treatment records;

3. The Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that any treatment
provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and to the Board at least once every
three (3) months regarding his attendance, progress, payment of fees, and
recommendations as to the continuation, frequency, and/or termination of treatment.
The Respondent shall sign any consent forms required to authorize Disciplinary Panel A
and the MPRP to receive written reports from his treating mental health and health
professionals or any treatment providers.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if and when the MPRP finds that the
Respondent is safe to practice medicine and if the Respondent has complied with

conditions above, the Respondent may petition the Reinstatement Inquiry Panel to lift
 

the suspension of the Respondent's license. Upon reinstatement, Disciplinary Panel A
may impose conditions on the Respondent's return to practice; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any terms or
conditions of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before the Board or Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that if, after the appropriate hearing, the Board or Panel A determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Consent
Order, the Board or Panel A may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on
probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent's license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or Panel A may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine
upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice
Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101—14-702, and all laws and regulations
governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed

in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
 

into effect upon the signature of the Board’ s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel A; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4—101 et seq. (2014 Vol. & 2016 Supp.)

   

0/17 [201 Urat

Dat Christine A. Farrell
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

CONSENT

I, Daniel J. Bochicchio, M.D., acknowledge that | was represented by counsel before
entering this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the purpose of resolving the
issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent
Order and its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority

and jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this
 

Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of a
disciplinary panel of the Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the

language, meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

    

Date Daniel J. Boc!
Respondent

NOTARY

STATE OF MARYLAND

CITYICOUNTY OF Palhmorce

| HISEBY CERTIFY that on this_|2 '" day of Oc tcbec 2017, before me, a
Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Daniel J.
Bochicchio, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Mh.

Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

  
    

[—

Notary Public
Metthew Lee Dayis

7

 
