George A. Oyler, M.D.

Date: September 27, 2022

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice
Medicine

George A. Oyler, M.D. License Number: D46921
Case Number: 2223-0007

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Oce.”) §14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License
Number D46921, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my
license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or
without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the
practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable
laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
I understand that the permanent surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT, and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B’s”) acceptance, becomes
a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board’’).

I acknowledge that the Board received information that I had been
hospitalized for a medical condition and initiated an investigation. I further
acknowledge that on August 11, 2022, Panel B summarily suspended my license.
Specifically, Panel B found that my current medical condition poses a substantial
likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public health, safety or welfare. A copy
of the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine is attached
as Attachment 1. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice

 
Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: George A. Oyler, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

medicine in the State of Maryland! to avoid further investigation and prosecution of
this disciplinary action. I recognize that for all purposes related to medical licensure
in Maryland, the findings in the Order for Summary Suspension will be treated as if
proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(3)(ii) Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, and
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
further prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these
allegations. I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s
investigative findings in a formal evidential hearing at which I would have had the
right to counsel to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my
own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provide by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would
result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et
seq. (2014), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also
agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office
of Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other
words, I agree that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is
not obligated to consider any application for licensure or reinstatement that I might
file at a future date.

! Upon Panel B’s acceptance of this permanent Letter of Surrender, I acknowledge that the Order
for Summary Suspension issued on August 11, 2022 is terminated as moot.

 

 
ORDERED that a post-deprivation summary suspension hearing in accordance
with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08E has been scheduled for Wednesday, August 24,
2022, at 12:30 p.m. at the Maryland State Board of Physicians. 4201 Patterson Avenue.
Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and be it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation summary suspension
hearing held before Panel B, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing,
may request within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within
thirty (30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt
Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2021 Repl. Vol.):
and it is further

ORDERED that this Order for Summary Suspension is an Order of Panel B and.
as such, is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 e

seq.

ox/ufeoze Signature On File

Date Christine A. Farrélly ‘ \)
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: George A. Oyler, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in
part or in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I
have been advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice
throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the right to consult with an
attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the right to
consult with an attorney prior to signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have
consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this Permanent
Letter of Surrender, I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior
to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland, I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent
Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I
make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

George A. QyJer, M.D. \J

 
Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: George A. Oyler, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 4

NOTARY

srateor Man|land
CITY/COUNTY OF Balty “Ore

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this A aay of g f in bt/2022 before me,
a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared G13" OYICV
M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of
this Permanent Letter of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

Noféy Public

 
 

My commission expires:

U(r

   

JORDAN BATTLE

Notary Pubite « State of Maryland
Buitimare City

My Commission Expires Apr 19, 2026 B

      

ACCEPTANCE

ag py f
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 27 day of sepfe WACK oo,
I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC PERMANENT SURRENDER of
George A. Oyler, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,

 

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrdily! Exkcytive Director)
Maryland Board of Physitfans /

 
Attachment |
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

GEORGE A. OYLER, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D46921 Case Number: 2223-0007B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of GEORGE A. OYLER,
M.D., (the “Respondent”), license number D46921 to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Govt § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol.), concluding that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B and _ the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the
following facts are true:!

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

medicine in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
in Maryland on November 30, 1994. His license is scheduled to expire on
September 30, 2023.

2. The Respondent was formerly board-certified in neurology; however, his board
certification expired in December 2006.
PRIOR DISCIPLINARY HISTORY

35 The Respondent has a lengthy disciplinary history before the Board.

4, On January 16, 1996, the Respondent entered into a non-public agreement with the

Board related to a medical condition that was affecting his practice of medicine.’

5) The Respondent thereafter violated the terms and conditions of the non-public
agreement.
6. On September 26, 1996, the Respondent submitted a Letter of Surrender (Letter of

Surrender #1) in lieu of further prosecution of pending disciplinary charges
regarding his violation of the non-public agreement.

7. On June 13, 1997, the Respondent entered into an agreement with a program (the
“Program”)’ that monitored his condition and related issues.

8. On December 24, 1997, the Board issued an Order reinstating the Respondent's
license and placed him on probation for five (5) years. The probation was subject
to certain conditions, including but not limited to the condition that the
Respondent fully comply with the terms of Program’s monitoring contract into

which the Respondent had entered.

* The nature of the Respondent’s medical condition is confidential.
5 The name of the Program is confidential.
10.

On or about September 28, 2000, the Board received information that the
Respondent had violated the Program’s monitoring contract.

On December 20, 2000, the Respondent entered into a Consent Order with the
Board that placed the Respondent on probation for an additional five (5) years and
required the Respondent to comply with the terms and conditions of his Program
monitoring contract.

On November 18, 2003, the Respondent once again submitted a Letter of
Surrender (Letter of Surrender #2) after he violated the 2000 Consent Order.
Letter of Surrender #2 provided that the Respondent’s license would remain
surrendered for a minimum period of three (3) years and until he complied with
conditions including documentation that he had received treatment for his medical
condition and that he enter into a new monitoring contract with the Program for a
minimum of five (5) years.

On October 26, 2016, Panel B issued an Order of Reinstatement afier the
Respondent demonstrated that he had satisfied the conditions required for
reinstatement. Pursuant to the Order of Reinstatement, Panel B placed the
Respondent on probation for a minimum of three (3) years subject to the terms that
he enter into a new Program monitoring contract and comply fully with the
Program’s treatment directives.

The 2016 Order of Reinstatement further provided that Panel B would consider a
petition for early termination of probation after the Respondent satisfactorily

completed one (1) year of probation and agreed to continued monitoring by the

3
16.

19.

20.

Program for the duration that he possesses an active license to practice medicine in
Maryland.

On November 1, 2017, the Panel B terminated the Respondent’s probation.

On June 30, 2020, the Respondent entered into a Consent Order after a Board
investigation revealed that he had signed patient discharge forms at a health
facility where he was then employed with names other than his own. The names
included “Donald J. Trump” and “I am Ironman.” Under the terms of the Consent
Order the Respondent was reprimanded and required to pay a civil fine of
$500.00.

Current Investigative Findings

On March 16, 2022, the Respondent was admitted to a hospital (“Hospital 1°)!
after he engaged in self-injurious behavior.’ The Respondent’s conduct was
unrelated to the medical condition for which the Program was monitoring him.
Hospital | discharged the Respondent on March 22, 2022.

On July 13, 2022, the Respondent was admitted to a hospital (“Hospital 2”) after
he once again engaged in self-injurious behavior.

While a patient at Hospital 2, the Respondent prescribed controlled dangerous
substances (“CDS”) to several patients. On July 16, 2022, the Program’s Medical
Director notified the Respondent that he was not to practice medicine until he had

been cleared by the Program.

4 The names of the hospitals are confidential.

> The specific nature of the self-injurious behavior is confidential.

4
21. | The Respondent continued to prescribe CDS to patients after being instructed by
the Program’s Medical Director that he was not to do so.

22. Hospital 2 discharged the Respondent on August 10, 2022.

23. The Program’s Medical Director concluded that the Respondent is not currently
capable of practicing medicine safely.°

24. The Respondent’s current medical condition and his demonstrated impaired
judgment poses a substantial likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public

health, safety or welfare.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings, Disciplinary Panel B concludes
that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this
case, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2021 Repl. Vol.), Md.
Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B7(a).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings and Conclusion of Lav, it is. by a
majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §
10-226(c)(2), the license GEORGE A. OYLER, M.D. to practice medicine in the State

of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED, and it is further

® The specific findings of the Medical Director are confidential.

5
