IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MARTIN LISS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD

Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS

License Number D47087 * Case Number 2016-0177

* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

The Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) and the Respondent, Martin Liss,
M.D., agree to enter into this Consent Order in order to resolve Dr. Liss’ dispensing prescription
medication without a permit issued by the Board.

FINDINGS OF FACT

On June 20, 2005, the Board issued Dr. Liss a permit to dispense prescription medication
in Maryland. The dispensing permit had an expiration date of June 1, 2015. Dr. Liss did not file
an application with the Board to renew that permit, thus, the authorization for Dr. Liss to
dispense prescription medication expired on June 1, 2015. After the expiration of the dispensing
permit issued on June 20, 2005, Dr. Liss continued to dispense prescription medication in
Maryland, although he did not have a permit to do so. On or about August 26, 2015, the Board
received Dr. Liss’ application for the reinstatement of his dispensing permit.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based upon the findings of fact, the Board concludes that Dr. Liss failed to comply with §
12-102 of the Health Occupations Article, in violation of § 14-404(a)(28) of the Health
Occupations Article. Section 12-102 of the Health Occupations Article requires that a physician
dispensing prescription medication or devices has a permit issued by the Board. See Health Occ.

§ 12-102(c)(2)(ii)1.C.
ORDER

Based upon the findings of fact and conclusion of law, it is, by the Board, hereby

ORDERED that, within 90 days, Dr. Liss shall pay a civil fine of $3000 by bank
certified check or money order made payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians, P.O. Box
37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Liss fails to comply with any term or condition of this Consent
Order, the Board, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, may impose a further sanction
upon Dr. Liss, including an additional fine or the denial of his application for the reinstatement
or renewal of his permit to dispense prescription medications or devices; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document.

  
    

 

—_~
0&/01/Z20/ a
Date Christine A. Farrelly/ Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Ph\sigians

CONSENT

I, Martin Liss, M.D., acknowledge that I have had the opportunity to consult with legal
counsel before signing this document. By this Consent, I agree and accept to be bound by this
Consent Order’s terms and conditions. I waive any rights I may have had to contest the Findings
of Fact, Conclusion of Law, Order, and Consent.

I acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the conclusion of
a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to consult, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and to all

other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I acknowledge the legal
authority and jurisdiction of the Board to initiate this action and to issue and enforce this Consent
Order. I also affirm that 1 am waiving my right to appeal or seek judicial or court review or
relief of this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order without reservation, and I fully understand and comprehend the
language, meaning, and terms and conditions of this Consent Order. I voluntarily sign this Order

fully understanding its meaning and effect.

     

Date Martin Liss,

sTATEOF “lor 4 lard

CITY/COUNTY OF _ Motz

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this vb day of _ . j wy , 2016, before me, a

Notary Public of the State and County aforesaid, personally appeared Martin Liss, M.D., and

.D.

NOTARY

gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

Notary Public

My commission expires:

   

   
    
   

HUI WANG
NOTARY PUBLIC
MONTGOMERY COUNTY

MARYLAND
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES JUNE 16, 2019

  
