Shastine Abate, M.D.

Date:_ Ij (5/2019
Arun Bhandari, Chair
Disciplinary Panel A
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Shastine Abate, M.D, License Number; D50296
Case Number: 7719-0086

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D50296, effective
December 31, 2019, I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 er seq. and other applicable laws, In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
January 3, 2019, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii). Specifically, Panel A alleged that I failed to properly secure my medical
office and that I dismissed the Complainant and her family members as patients because
of her complaint to the Board. I resolved the disciplinary charges through entering into 9
Consent Order with Panel A, dated March 26, 2019 (the “Consent Order”), in which
Panel A found that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) (unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine), Pursuant to the Consent Order, I was reprimanded and placed
on probation for a minimum of one (1) year with certain terms and conditions including
that I successfully complete a course in appropriate physician-patient relations. A copy of
the Consent Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order,
including taking a course in appropriate physician-patient relations, and due to my
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Shastine Abate, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

planned retirement. I acknowledge that the Consent Order remains and will continue to
be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender,
I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Consent Order as long as I do
not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that ] have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution for violating the Consent Order. I
acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be able to prove

that I violated the Consent Order by a preponderance of the evidence and that such
charges shall be treated as proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest any charges related to my violation of the Consent Order. In waiving
my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel
at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own
behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including
the right to appeal to a circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

1 further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose terms and conditions in conformity with or in addition to those set forth in
the Consent Order. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I

will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license
has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel “A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A finds as a matter of law that the

Respondent violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3), Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct

in the practice of medicine,

ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:
ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum of
ONE (1) YEAR? During probation, the Respondent shall comply with the following

terms and conditions of probation:

1. Within SIX (6) MONTHS of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent is required to take and successfully complete a course in appropriate

physician-patient relations. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain
the disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course
is begun;

(b) the disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the

internet;

? If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.

7
(c) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary
panel that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal; and

(e) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course.

2. The Respondent shall be subject to periodic unannounced site inspection
visits, to ensure that her office is being maintained in a clean, orderly and safe condition.
The Respondent shall at all times cooperate with Board staff or its agents in conducting the
inspection(s). The Respondent understands and agrees that if Board staff's inspection
determines that her office is not maintained in a clean, orderly and safe condition, such acts

shall constitute a violation of this Consent Order.

3, Within THIRTY (30) DAYS of the effective date of this Consent Order,
the Respondent shall submit a written action plan (the “Action Plan”) to the Panel that will
set forth written policies and procedures that she will implement in her office to ensure
that: (a) the office is appropriately staffed and secured at all times and (b) expired
medications are disposed of in a timely manner. Upon Panel approval, the Respondent
shall forthwith provide the written Action Plan to all employees and require them to
execute written affidavits that they have read and will follow the requirements that are set
forth in the Action Plan. The Respondent will keep the affidavits on file at her office and

upon Board request, shall provide them to the Board for verification purposes.

4. The Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation.
5. A violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Consent Order,

6. | The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101—14-702, and all federal and state laws and regulations

governing. the practice of medicine in Maryland.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to
comply with any term or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall
be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a
material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
. Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a

show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on

the Respondent, and it is further

ORDERED that after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of probation, and the minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR of probation imposed by the

Consent Order has passed, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the panel

9
requesting termination of probation. The Respondent may be required to appear before the
disciplinary panel to discuss r her petition for termination. After consideration of the
petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel. The
disciplinary panel may grant the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of
the disciplinary panel, if the Respondent has complied with all probationary terms and

conditions and if there are no pending complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the

terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed

the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-41 1.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

63lzulz019 Signature on File
Date Christine A. Farrefly| {/

' Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT
I, Shastine Abate, M.D., assert that I am aware of my right to consult with and be
represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any proceedings that

would otherwise result from the charges currently pending. I have chosen to proceed

10
without counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel is freely
and voluntarily made,

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendinents or modifications to any condition.

Lassert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seg.
concerning the pending charges. | waive these rights and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on their behalf, and to
all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those
procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the
jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce
this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges, I waive any right to contest the Findings .
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights
to appeal this Consent Order,

[ sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understands the language

and meaning of its terms.
o2(2-a-1047 Signature on File
Date Shastine Abate, M.D. fr
Respondent

NOTARY

STATE OF fel Mifflirs wf
CITY/COUNTY OF Be Ded ne

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Ap"Gey of Ji fice — 2019, before

me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Shastine
Abate, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order

was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

MICHELLE RA, RAINES
NOTARY PUBLIC / 1D# 143163
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:
APRIL 5, 2023

My Commission expires:

 

12
Arun Bhandari, M.D, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Shastine Abate, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily,

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

NOTARY

STATE OF ipbdiaphand,
CITY/COUNTY OF ap Lh iepypre

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this F day of Cth phi , 2019 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personall¥ appeared Shastine Abate, M.D.,

and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

MICHELLE R. RAINES

   
 

ao
NOTARY PUBLIC / ID# 143163 - ZZ ;
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND = AG az
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES: Notary Public

APRIL 5, 2023

My commission expires: CES, Os av Fhe

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 5th day of Novemb oor, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept Shastine Abate, M.D.’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of her license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

seereanis on File

Christine A. Farrell Farrelly, Rx Bafa e Director
Maryland Board of Hee
ATTACHMENT 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

SHASTINE ABATE, MLD. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D50296 * Case Numbers: 2219-0007A
2219-0029A
x * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
On January 3, 2019, Disciplinary Panel A ("Panel A") of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged SHASTINE ABATE, MLD. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D50296, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp).
Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following provision of the Act

under Health Occ. § 14-404:

(a) Jn general, -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(3) Is guilty of:
a. ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[,]

On March 13, 2019, a hearing was held before Panel A, sitting as a Disciplinary

Committee for Case Resolution. As a result of negotiations occurring before Panel A, the
Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of Procedural
Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and Notary.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A makes the following Findings of Fact:
I BACKGROUND
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is a physician licensed
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to
practice medicine in Maryland on April 1, 1996, under License Number D50296. The
Respondent’s Maryland medical license is active through September 30, 2020. |
2. The Respondent is not currently board-certified in any medical specialty! and
at all times relevant to the charges, maintained a medical office located at 7004 Security
Boulevard, Suite 101, Baltimore, Maryland 21244,
Il. COMPLAINTS
3. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing a
complaint, dated May 9, 2018, from the mother (the “Complainant”) of a patient (the
“Patient”) who went to the Respondent’s office on May 9, 2018, at about 11:40 a.m. for an
unscheduled medical office visit. When artiving at the Respondent’s office, the Patient
found that the office was open but that there were no office staff persons or other
individuals present there. The Patient telephoned the Complainant, who instructed her to

wait in the office until office staff returned. A fier an additional period of time elapsed and

' The Respondent was formerly board-certified in internal medicine, but her certification expired in 2015. The
Respondent was formerly board-certified in infectious diseases, but her certification expired in 2008.

2
staff did not appear, the Patient again called the Complainant for advice on what to do. The
Complainant instructed the Patient to call the police “because every inch of patient
information is exposed and at risk of HIPAA violations, identity theft, etc.” The Patient
contacted the Baltimore County Police Department, which dispatched a patrol officer to
the scene. The Board investigated this complaint under Case Number 2219-0007A,

4, While the Board was investigating the above complaint, the Complainant
submitted a second complaint against the Respondent, dated September 4, 2018. In this
complaint, the Complainant alleged that on August 30, 2018, she telephoned the
Respondent’s office to request a same-day appointment for a medical issue. The
Complainant spoke to an office staff person, who placed the Complainant on the schedule
for an office visit for that day. The Complainant reported that prior to going to the
Respondent's office for the visit, the staff member telephoned her, canceled the visit, and
informed her that the Respondent would no longer treat her or her family members, The
Complainant stated that when she asked why. the Respondent was terminating their
professional relationship, the staff person stated that the Respondent told her to tell the
Complainant to “call the Maryland Board of Physicians and ask them why.” The Board
investigated this complaint under Case Number 2219-0029A.

I. BOARD INVESTIGATION

5. The Board obtained a report from the Baltimore County Police Department
about the Respondent’s office being unattended on May 9, 2018. This report stated that a
Baltimore County Police Department patrol officer was dispatched to the Respondent’s

office in response to the call for police on May 9, 2018. The patrol officer’s report stated

3
that he arrived at the Respondent’s office at 12:19 p.m. and searched the location. The
patrol officer found that the office was unlocked and that there were no employees inside
the office. The patrol officer did not find any notes or postings stating that the office would
be closed or empty. The patrol officer reported that he encountered the Patient, who was
upset because of her belief that her folder and other patient folders containing sensitive
information could have been stolen. The patrol officer further reported that he contacted
the Respondent’s call service in attempts to reach her, but the call service advised that she
did not answer her phone and it had left multiple messages for the Respondent. The patrol
officer contacted the building supervisor who secured the Respondent’s office.

6. Pursuant to the Board’s investigation, Board staff conducted an unannounced
site inspection of the Respondent’s medical office on June 15, 2018. Board staff initiated
its inspection before the start of the Respondent's work day. Board staff observed that in
one examination room, the hazardous waste trash receptacle was halfway filled, and a
trashcan was full. An office staff person who accompanied Board staff to the examination
room tore off the examination bed paper, indicating that the office had not been cleaned
after the end of the previous day. Board staff inspected a second examination room and
observed that “trash was overflowing.” Board staff inspected a locked closet that contained
sample medications, the majority of which were expired. Some of the medications expired
as far back as 2007. Board staff inspected another room that contained three refrigerators.
A padlocked refrigerator contained expired insulin and vaccines within, some of which
were labeled from 2007. Board staff inspected another refrigerator that appeared not to be

functioning, which had frozen specimen containers that contained liquid. This refrigerator

4
contained mold and did not appear to be generating any cold air. Board staff inspected
what appeared to be the Respondent’s office and observed a large pill vial that contained
large pills. The pill Jabel on the vial indicated that a controlled dangerous substance was
inside the vial or had been stored inside the vial. The vial was in plain view on the top of
the desk inside the unlocked office. Next to the vial were other medications that were
called “Atripla.” Atripla is a prescription-only medication used to treat HIV. Board staff
questioned the Respondent about this medication, The Respondent stated that the
medication was for an HIV patient whom she was treating.

7. Board staff observed and photographed expired medications including:
Lyrica (a prescription-only medication for nerve pain); Pulminicort Flexhaler (a
bronchodilator); Cymbalta (a prescription-only anti-depressant); Qnasl (a nasal aerosol);
Diclofenac (a prescription-only pain reliever); Tresiba (a long-acting form of insulin);
Merck virus vaccine (2007); Qvar (an asthma medication); Detrol LA (a prescription-only
medication to treat overactive bladder symptoms); and Anoro and Ellipta (prescription-
only medications used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). Board staff also
photographed paper patient.records that were housed in the receptionists’ work station,
which was unsecured.

8. By letter dated July 3, 2018, the Board requested that the Respondent provide
a response to the allegations raised in the Complainant’s May 9, 2018, complaint, and to
the findings Board staff made during their June 15, 2018, inspection of her office, where
they found large amounts of expired sample medications and an unlabeled, unidentified
vial of medication on the Respondent’s desk in an unlocked, unsecured area,

5.
9. The Respondent provided a response by electronic mail, dated August 4,
2018. The Respondent acknowledged that her office was left unattended on May 9, 2018,
and that although she now used electronic health records since 201 1, she kept some paper
charts in the: office. The Respondent further acknowledged that she kept expired
medications in her office. The Respondent also stated that she is now storing the
medication Board staff observed in her office in a locked cabinet.

10. Board staff interviewed the Respondent’s office staff about both of the above
complaints. One staff member acknowledged that she “could have accidently lefi the door -
unlocked” upon her departure from the office on May 9, 2018. A second staff person, who
was questioned about the Respondent’s termination of her professional. relationship with
the Complainant and her family, confirmed that the Respondent instructed her to tell the
Complainant to contact the Board to find out why she had terminated her as a patient.

11. Board staff interviewed the Respondent about both of the above complaints.
The Respondent acknowledged that her office staff left her office unattended on May 9,
2018, and further acknowledged that her comments to the Complainant when canceling her
appointment on August 30, 2018, were not appropriate.

12, The Respondent’s actions, as set forth above, constitute unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ, § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), for
reasons including: her failure to secure her medical office and medical charts on May 9,
2018; her failure to dispose of very old medications; her failure to keep medications stored
in a secure manner; her maintenance of an unclean office environment; and the manner of

her termination of her professional relationship with the Complainant and her family.

6
