IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

FRANK L. KRIGER, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D50350 * Case Number: 7723-0007

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER SUSPENDING LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

On July 29, 2022, Disciplinary Panel A (the “Panel’’) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) and Frank L. Kriger, MD (the “Respondent’) entered into a
Consent Order wherein Panel A concluded as a matter of law that the Respondent failed
to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel.

Pursuant to the Consent Order, the Respondent was reprimanded and within ten
(10) days of the effective date of the Consent Order (July 29, 2022), ordered to comply in
full with all of the Board’s inquiries into its investigation of the Respondent including but
not limited to the Board’s letter dated August 11, 2021 and its subpoena duces tecum
dated August 16, 2021. The Consent Order further provided that if the Respondent failed
to comply in full with all of the Board’s inquiries into its investigation of the Respondent,
that his license will be automatically suspended from the eleventh day and will remain
suspended until he is in full compliance.

The Respondent has complied with the Board’s August 16, 2021 subpoena, but
the Respondent has not responded to the Board’s August 11, 2021 letter.

By letter dated August 1, 2022, sent via email and regular mail to the

Respondent’s addresses of record, Dr. Kriger was reminded of his obligations pursuant to

' A copy of the July 29, 2022 Consent Order is incorporated by reference and available upon request.
4 .
the July 29, 2022 Consent Order to include responding to the Board’s August 11, 2021
letter.

On August 17, 2022, Board staff reached a staff member at the telephone number
provided by the Respondent, and left a message with staff for the Respondent to return
Board staffs telephone call. A return call was never received.

On August 19, 2022, Board staff called the Respondent at the same number and
left a voicemail message for the Respondent. No return call was received by the Board.

Also, on August 19, 2022, Board staff faxed the Respondent a letter reminding
him that it was imperative for him to comply with the Board’s August 11, 2021 letter so
that his medical license would not be suspended.

Again, on August 19, 2022, Board staff called the telephone number provided by
the Respondent and spoke with the Respondent’s office staff who informed Board staff
that the Respondent would “take care of” this matter this weekend.

As of the date of this Order, the Respondent still has failed to comply with the
Board’s August 11, 2021 letter.

It is thus, pursuant to the July 29, 2022 Consent Order, hereby

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland is hereby SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland shall remain suspended until the Respondent complies with the Board’s August

11, 2021 letter; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent remains on PROBATION for a minimum of
SIX MONTHS. During probation, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms
and conditions of probation:
(1) The Respondent is required to take and successfully complete a course in
professional ethics. The following terms apply:
(a) it is the Respondent's responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain
the disciplinary panel's approval of the course before the course is begun;
(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary
panel that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;
(c) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal;
(d) _ the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course;
(2) The Respondent shall cooperate and comply in full with the Board's
existing investigation of the Respondent; and it is further
ORDERED that within ONE YEAR, the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of
$5,000. The Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to
the Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed to P.0. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland
21297. The Board will not renew or reinstate the Respondent's license if the Respondent
fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; and it is further
ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by this Order has passed, the

Respondent may submit a written petition for termination of probation. After

? Tf the Respondent's license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any
conditions will be tolled.
consideration of the petition, the Respondent's probation may be administratively
terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel if the Respondent has complied
with all probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending complaints relating
to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before
an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine dispute as to a
material fact, the Respondent shalt be given a show cause healing before a disciplinary
panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on
probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent's
license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one
or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent;
and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date the Order is signed by
the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director signs this
Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of

this Order; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann., Health

Occ, §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov.§ 4-333(b)(6).

| Signature on F ile
oS [24 /20zz — os) |
Pas peewwebieor ()  C)

Maryland State Board of Physicians
