IN THE MATTER OF * - BEFORE THE

PHILIP W. HALSTEAD, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D50803 * Case Number: 7718-0049B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On October 30, 2017, Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) Disciplinary
Panel B (“Panel B”) issued an Order After Show Cause Hearing concerning Philip W. Halstead,
M.D., that, pertinent to this case, included a condition requiring him to have monthly face-to-
face meetings with a supervising physician to discuss ten patient’s charts for a minimum of two
years from the date of the first satisfactory peer report. Dr. Halstead was required to ensure that
the supervising physician submitted quarterly reports that detailed any concerns with Dr.
Halstead’s medical practice.

On January 28, 2019, after receiving three quarterly reports that noted practice
deficiencies and his failure to meet face-to-face with his supervisor on seven instances, Panel B
issued an Amended Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause,! which notified Dr.
Halstead of the alleged violation of this condition of the October 2017 Order and gave him the
opportunity to appear at another hearing before Panel B to show cause why additional sanctions
should not be imposed against his license. On March 27, 2019, Dr. Halstead appeared before
Panel B at a Show Cause hearing. The State argued that Dr. Halstead’s violation merited a
comprehensive assessment and training. Dr. Halstead admitted that he did not meet face-to-face
with his supervising physician as required by the October 2017 Order. He further admitted that

‘A Violation of Order and Notice to Show Cause was issued on January 11, 2019, but was
superseded by the Amended Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause.

1
there were deficiencies with his medical practice with respect to physical examinations and
differential diagnoses. He argued that coursework and continued supervision would be an
appropriate sanction.
FINDINGS OF FACT
PRIOR DISCIPLINARY HISTORY

Dr. Halstead was initially licensed by the Board in 1996. He was trained in internal
medicine and is not board-certified in any specialty. On November 26, 2012, the Board charged
Dr. Halstead with a failure to meet the appropriate delivery of quality medical care,” in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and a failure to keep adequate medical records in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40). On May 22, 2013, Dr. Halstead and the Board entered into a
Consent Order reprimanding Dr. Halstead and placing him on probation with conditions. As a
condition of the Consent Order, Dr. Halstead’s practice was subject to a chart and/or peer review,
where an unsatisfactory chart or peer review would be deemed a violation of probation. The
Board sent six patient records for a chart review and peer review. The chart reviewer and the
two peer reviewers found, based on the medical records of all six patients, that Dr. Halstead
violated the standard of care and had failed to keep adequate medical records. Based on the
negative peer reviews, Panel B charged Dr. Halstead with violating the standard of care and
inadequate medical recordkeeping.

On March 24, 2016, Dr. Halstead entered into a second Consent Order with Panel B,
wherein Panel B concluded that he violated the standard of care and failed to keep adequate
medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) and (40). Pursuant to the 2016
Consent Order, Dr. Halstead was reprimanded and placed on probation for a minimum of two

2 This ground, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) is commonly referred to as a violation of the
“standard of care” and is referred to in this manner in this Order.

2
disciplinary history and the CPEP report and determine whether Dr. Halstead is clinically
competent and safe to return to the practice of medicine. If the Panel determines that Dr.
Halstead is safe to practice, the Panel may terminate his suspension and may impose any terms
and conditions it deems appropriate on Dr. Halstead’s return to practice, including any
educational intervention recommended by CPEP, probation, a requirement to work in a
structured environment that includes supervision, a peer supervisor, chart review, peer review,
and any other appropriate terms and conditions; and it is further

ORDERED that if Disciplinary Panel B determines that Dr. Halstead is not safe to return
to the practice of medicine based on the CPEP report, Disciplinary Panel B may decline to
terminate the suspension and may further require completion of any educational intervention
recommended by CPEP. Upon completion of the educational intervention, Dr. Halstead may
again apply for termination of his suspension under the same conditions described above; and it
is further

ORDERED that if the CPEP evaluation, at any point, indicates that Dr. Halstead is
incapable of practicing medicine safely and unlikely to improve, Disciplinary Panel B may
revoke Dr. Halstead’s license in accordance with the procedures required by the Administrative
Procedures Act; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Halstead allegedly fails to undergo and complete a
comprehensive evaluation by the Clinical Competence Assessment program administered by
CPEP or fails to complete any educational intervention recommended by CPEP, Dr. Halstead
shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a

material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of

11
Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Halstead shall
be given a show cause hearing before the Board disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board disciplinary panel determines
that Dr. Halstead has failed to comply with these requirements of this Order, the Board
disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr. Halstead, place Dr. Halstead on probation with appropriate
terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke Dr. Halstead’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland. The Board disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Halstead; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Halstead is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order After Show Cause Hearing; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. §§ 4-333(b)(6) (2014 & Supp. 2018).

os [24)e019

ate

 

12
years with terms and conditions.? He agreed to permanently cease practicing pain management
and treating patients for chronic pain. The Consent Order also required Dr. Halstead’s practice
to be supervised by a panel-approved peer supervisor, who is board-certified in internal medicine.
Dr. Halstead was required to meet with the supervisor at least once each month and to ensure that
the Board received quarterly reports from the supervisor addressing any concerns with Dr.
Halstead’s medical practice.

Dr. Halstead obtained a supervisor in July 2016, however, the supervisor’s first quarterly
report, due on October 27, 2016, was submitted by Dr. Halstead late and was insufficiently
detailed. After being notified that the report was insufficient and inconsistent with the
instruction in the Consent Order, on January 20, 2017, the supervisor informed the Board that he
could no longer serve as Dr. Halstead’s supervisor. The Panel gave Dr. Halstead until February
3, 2017, to submit the name and Curriculum Vitae of a new supervisor.

Over the course of the next two months, Dr. Halstead submitted several names of
potential supervisors and individuals who were either ineligible or unwilling to serve as a
supervisor. During this time, Dr. Halstead requested and received several extensions from Panel
B.

On May 25, 2017, the Panel issued an advisory letter, giving Dr. Halstead a July 1, 2017,
deadline to find a new supervisor. Dr. Halstead did not provide the names of additional
supervisors by the July 1, 2017, deadline and, on August 28, 2017, Panel B issued a Violation of

Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause. On October 25, 2017, Panel B held a Show Cause

3 Dr. Halstead complied with the March 2016 Consent Order conditions that required him to
complete courses in primary care and record keeping and to obtain and begin utilizing electronic
medical records with a dictation feature.
hearing at which Dr. Halstead stated that he had found a company that would find a supervisor

for him.

CURRENT VIOLATION

On October 30, 2017, Panel B issued an Order After Show Cause Hearing. The Order
gave Dr. Halstead until November 22, 2017, to submit a supervising physician for approval,
extended Dr. Halstead’s probation for an additional two years from the date of a satisfactory
supervisor report, and required supervision of his medical practice for the entirety of the
probationary period. The Order specified the details of the supervision, including in Condition 1
which provides:

the supervising physician shall have face-to-face meetings with Dr. Halstead at

least MONTHLY and review a minimum of TEN patient records selected by the

peer supervisor for discussion with Dr. Halstead. Additionally, Dr. Halstead is

responsible for ensuring that the supervising physician provides the Board with

quarterly reports addressing whether there are any concerns with Dr. Halstead’s
medical practice.

On November 29, 2017, Panel B approved Physician A, a physician board-certified in
internal medicine, to supervise Dr. Halstead’s practice. Physician A was contracted by a third-
party service (“Company A”) that specializes in locating peer monitors for professional practices.

Physician A met with Dr. Halstead face-to-face on January 8, 2018. Physician A had a
phone conference with Dr. Halstead in February 2018. Physician A submitted the first quarterly
report on March 1, 2018. The first report established a baseline of Dr. Halstead’s medical
practice. The report found practice deficiencies with failing to note a presenting complaint,
insufficient medical histories, failing to examine the presenting complaint, and failing to follow

up on significant diagnostic symptoms. The report noted that Dr. Halstead’s examinations did

not appear systematic or organized and that Dr. Halstead did not demonstrate an awareness of
established care guidelines for routinely encountered conditions. The report made 13
recommendations and suggested that Dr. Halstead focus on (1) organizing his approach to each
patient visit to focus on the patient’s condition and presenting complaint, (2) documenting a
complete note at each visit, and (3) using on-line resources to access treatment guidelines.

During the second quarter, Physician A had three phone conferences with Dr. Halstead
where they reviewed patient charts from February, March, and April 2018. Dr. Halstead did not
meet face-to-face with the supervisor, as required by the Panel’s Order, during this quarter. The
second quarterly report was submitted on July 16, 2018. The supervisor’s report found no
improvement of organization and legibility of Dr. Halstead’s charts, a continued failure to list the
chief patient complaints, a failure to document treatment history, physical exams that were not
appropriate to the presenting complaint, a failure to investigate the presenting complaint, a
failure to order essential tests and diagnostic studies, and a failure to record complete treatment
plans. Physician A added to the previous recommendations that Dr. Halstead take a course in
internal medicine review to address knowledge gaps, instruction for evidence-based care, and
optimizing his electronic medical records. He also included seven other specific clinical practice
recommendations.

During the third quarter, Physician A had phone conferences with Dr. Halstead to review
patient charts from May, June, and July 2018. Dr. Halstead, again, did not meet face-to-face
with the supervisor, in violation of the Panel’s Order. The third quarterly report was submitted
on September 24, 2018. The report noted several areas of concern that were carry-over problems
from his previous reports, including a failure to approach treatment planning systematically by
setting goals and a failure to track and measure progress. Physician A was “most concerned

about the lack of basic knowledge in terms of conducting and recording diagnostic investigation
and assessment.” Further, Dr. Halstead did not use standard terminology or methodology, did
not systematically follow up on significant findings or use a methodological approach to
ascertain a diagnostic conclusion. His approach to treatment planning was haphazard. The
report found failures related to medical histories, physical examinations, differential diagnoses,
medical testing, treatment or care plans, and progress notes. Physician A reiterated that Dr.
Halstead should complete an internal medicine review course, an electronic medical records
optimization course, a recordkeeping course, and he should obtain a subscription to an online
decisional support system. The report also repeated the six clinical recommendations from
previous reports that continued to be deficient.

Physician A and Dr. Halstead met face-to-face in October and November 2018. The
Board did not receive any quarterly reports after the third report because Dr. Halstead failed to
make his payments to Company A.

SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On January 28, 2019, Panel B issued an Amended Violation of Consent Order and Notice
to Show Cause and, on March 27, 2019, held a Show Cause hearing at which Dr. Halstead
appeared. At the hearing, the State argued that Dr. Halstead’s practice had significant patient
care deficiencies and recommended enrollment in an extensive and thorough physician
assessment and education program.

Dr. Halstead agreed that he had some deficiencies in his practice at the time the reports
were created, but argued that his practice had improved since the reports were issued and
characterized some of the reports’ conclusions as extreme or overzealous. Dr. Halstead

recommended that the Panel approve a new supervisor and suggested further coursework.
DISPOSITION

It is uncontroverted that Dr. Halstead did not meet face-to-face with his peer supervisor
in seven of the ten monthly meetings he had with the peer supervisor. Dr. Halstead admitted this
at the Show Cause Hearing. This is a straight-forward violation of condition 1 of the October
2017 Order After Show Cause Hearing.

The peer supervisor also noted significant practice deficiencies. Of particular concern to
the Panel are those deficiencies pertaining to Dr. Halstead’s physical examinations and
differential diagnoses, two cornerstones of internal medical practice. Physician A’s report stated
“the PE [physical examination] was not always appropriate in scope given type of visit and
nature of the presenting problem.” The supervisor also noted significant concerns about Dr.
Halstead’s differential diagnostic assessments. The supervisor noted that, in many cases, “Dr.
Halstead did not order tests and diagnostic studies when they were needed” and, when they were
performed, the documented findings were “insufficient to support the diagnosis” and “did not
consistently note a diagnosis for each acute problem or condition.” The supervisor characterized
Dr. Halstead’s clinical reasoning as “haphazard and not always justifiable with other information
on the notes.”

At the show cause hearing, Dr. Halstead admitted that his current deficiencies include
physical examinations and differential diagnoses. Dr. Halstead also admitted that at the time of
the reports his practice “probably needed a lot of improvement” but argued that his current
records are better than they were during the review periods. Dr. Halstead stated that he would be
willing to take courses to remedy “those . . . deficiencies, eliminate those and bring [him]self up

to speed.”
The Panel is extremely concerned about Dr. Halstead’s ability to competently practice
medicine, and the Panel’s sanction reflects Dr. Halstead’s disciplinary history as well as the
significant concerns identified by the supervising physician. Dr. Halstead has a long disciplinary
history with the Board reflecting multiple successive standard of care violations. Since the date
of the first Consent Order issued on May 2, 2013, the Board has expressed concerns about Dr.
Halstead’s core medical competencies, including his failure to order appropriate tests, document
histories, and conduct physical examinations.

To remediate his deficiencies, the Board has required Dr. Halstead to take a course in
primary care and two courses in medical recordkeeping. In his most recent October 2017 Order
After Show Cause, Dr. Halstead was also required to have monthly face-to-face meetings with a
supervising physician, a condition that he disregarded more often than not. Dr. Halstead admits
that he did not have face-to-face meetings with his supervisor on a monthly basis. Dr. Halstead
also admits that he still has deficiencies in his practice with physical examinations and
differential diagnoses. While he believes that he can improve with coursework, he admits that he
might need a “higher level, or maybe a more intense level” of training to improve.

Panel B agrees that Dr. Halstead needs a high level, more intense assessment and
education than can be provided by a peer supervisor and Panel B believes that Dr. Halstead
needs to undergo a comprehensive assessment and to enroll in an appropriate educational
program. Accordingly, the Panel will suspend Dr. Halstead’s medical license and order him to
undergo and complete a comprehensive assessment by the Center for Personalized Education for

Professionals (“CPEP”) and an educational intervention, if recommended by CPEP.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Disciplinary Panel B concludes that Dr. Halstead violated probationary Condition 1 of

the October 30, 2017 Order After Show Cause Hearing.
ORDER

On an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel B, it is hereby

ORDERED that the REPRIMAND and condition permanently prohibiting Dr. Halstead
from practicing pain management and prohibiting him from treating any patients for chronic pain,
imposed by the 2013 Consent Order remains in effect; and it is further

ORDERED that the Probation and probationary terms and conditions of the October 30,
2017 Order After Show Cause are TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Halstead’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED. The suspension goes into effect 30 days from the date of execution of this Order,
to give Dr. Halstead time to transition his patients to other providers;* and it is further

ORDERED that during the period of suspension, Dr. Halstead shall establish and
implement a procedure by which Dr. Halstead’s patients may obtain their medical records

without undue burden and notify all patients of that procedure; and it is further

ORDERED that during the period of suspension, Dr. Halstead shall not:

4 Tf Dr. Halstead’s license expires during the period of suspension, and Dr. Halstead
fails to renew his license:
(i) the failure to renew the license does not remove the suspension from the Dr.
Halstead’s disciplinary record during the period of non-renewal;

(ii) the time of suspension will be tolled until Dr. Halstead’s license to practice
medicine in this state is reinstated or until Dr. Halstead again possesses a license;

(iii) the condition precedent to terminating a suspension is tolled until Dr.
Halstead’s license to practice medicine in this State is reinstated or Dr. Halstead
again possesses a license.
(1) practice medicine;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself or herself
out to the public as a current provider of medical services;

(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Halstead’s name or provider number
by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(5) dispense medications; or
(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is further

ORDERED that during the period of suspension Dr. Halstead shall enroll in and undergo
and complete a comprehensive evaluation by the Clinical Competence Assessment Program
administered by the Center for Personalized Education for Professionals (“CPEP”); and it is
further

ORDERED that Dr. Halstead shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with the
assessment process established by CPEP, and shall fully participate and comply with all
evaluations and screenings as directed by CPEP; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Halstead shall enroll in, and fully and timely cooperate and comply
with any educational intervention recommended by CPEP; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Halstead’s failure to comply with any the assessment process
established by CPEP or any educational intervention recommended by CPEP, constitutes a
violation of this Order After Show Cause Hearing; and it is further

ORDERED that following the CPEP evaluation, CPEP shall produce written reports to
Panel B and Dr. Halstead detailing the results of the evaluations and its recommendation about
whether Dr. Halstead’s performance was satisfactory or unsatisfactory, and whether he is
clinically competent and safe to return to practice of medicine; and it is further

ORDERED that after Panel B’s receipt of the written reports, Dr. Halstead may petition
Panel B to terminate his suspension. Disciplinary Panel B shall consider Dr. Halstead’s

10
