IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ERIK S. KASS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D51250 * Case Number: 2015-0798B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On or about March 31, 2015, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board’) received an Application Form for Reinstatement of Medical Licensure (the
"Reinstatement Application") from ERIK S. KASS, M.D., License Number D51250 (the
"Respondent"). Based on its ensuing investigation of the Reinstatement Application,
the Board determined that it had grounds to charge the Respondent under the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ. II”) §§ 14-
101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.).
Specifically, the Board determined that it had grounds to charge the Respondent
with violating the following provision of the Act:
§ 14-601 Practicing without a license.
Except as otherwise provided in this title, a person may not
practice, attempt to practice, or offer to practice medicine in this
State unless licensed by the Board.

Prior to the issuance of charges, the Respondent agreed to enter into this public

Consent Order consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order.
FINDINGS OF FACT

 

The Board makes the following Findings of Fact:

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland on or about October 2, 1996, under License Number D51250.

2. The Respondent allowed his Maryland medical license to expire on
September 30, 2014, without applying for a renewal with the Board.

3. On or about March 31, 2015, the Board received the Reinstatement
Application from the Respondent. In response to a question in the Reinstatement
Application asking the reason the Respondent allowed his license to expire, he stated,
"Inadvertent oversight - | received a reminder notice from the Maryland medical board in
the past but did not get one this time and forgot about the deadline for renewal."

4. Based on his disclosure in the Reinstatement Application, the Board
initiated an investigation of the Respondent.

5. By letter, dated June 5, 2015, a Board investigator asked the Respondent
to provide a detailed explanation of his work activities in Maryland since October 1,
2014. In a written response, dated June 16, 2015, the Respondent stated "I continued
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland after my license expired on September 30,
2014, however, | was unaware of these circumstances until | was notified by one of my
patients in December of 2014 of my license expiration."

6. The Respondent acknowledged that he treated patients in Maryland
between October 2014 and May 2015, the time period during which his Maryland

medical license was expired.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Board concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent practiced medicine in State of Maryland between October 2014
and May 2015 without being licensed by the Board, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-
601.

ORDER

 

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, by a
majority of the quorum of the Board considering this case:

ORDERED that within THIRTY (30) DAYS of the date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent shall pay a fine in the amount of FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($5,000).
The fine shall be made by bank certified check or money order, payable to the Maryland
Board of Physicians, P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall be responsible for all costs incurred in
fulfilling the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md.

Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014).

0s/ei [20]
Date

 
    

Christine A. Farrelly
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
CONSENT
|, Erik S. Kass, M.D., acknowledge that | had the opportunity to retain counsel but
elected not to do so before entering into this Consent Order. By this Consent and for
the purpose of resolving the issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound
by the foregoing Consent Order and its conditions.
| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to forego my
opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority and
jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this
Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of the
Board that might have followed after any such hearing.
| sign this Consent Order, voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully

understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms of this Consent Order.

- Fl re [16

ate

      

Erik S. Kass, M.D.
The Respondent
 

STATE OF MARYLAND

CITYICOUNTY OF _ Cv o\|
| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2 (y2 day of) UV < , 2016,

before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County personally appear

 

Erik S. Kass, M.D., License Number D51250, and made oath in due form of law that

signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notary seal.

osan A. Nowe |
Notary Public

My commission expires: \ } i 8/ 20\7

  
 
 

  

MEGAN L. GARDNER
Notary Public-Maryland
Carroll County
My Commission Expires
January 28, 2017

      
