IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

FIDELIS F. DOH, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D51327 * Case Numbers: 2219-0156A
2220-0260A
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On June 9, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged Fidelis F. Doh, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License
Number D51327, with violations of the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’’), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.).
Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the Act:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations
~— Grounds.

(a) Jn general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle,
a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee
on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of: . . . (ii) unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine;

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate
peer review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care
performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any
other location in this State;

(28) Fails to comply with the provisions of § 12-102 of this article; [and]
(43) Except for the licensure process described under Subtitle 3A of this
title, violates any provision of this title, any rule or regulation
adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the
practice of medicine[.]

The pertinent provisions of Health Occ. § 12-102 provide:

(a) Definitions.

(3) “Personally preparing and dispensing” means that the licensed
dentist; physician, or podiatrist:

(i) _ Is physically present on the premises when the prescription is
filled; and

(ii) Performs the final check of the prescription before it is
provided to the patient.

(c) Preparing of prescriptions by licensed dentist, veterinarian, physician,
etc.; exception. —

(2) This section does not prohibit:

ii) A licensed dentist, physician, or podiatrist from personall

phys Pp y

preparing and dispensing the dentist’s, physician’s or
podiatrist’s prescriptions when:

(4) The dentist, physician, or podiatrist:

A. Complies with the dispensing and labeling
requirements of this title;

B. Records the dispensing of prescription drugs or
device on the patient’s chart;

E. Except for starter doses or samples without charge,
provides the patient with a written prescription,
maintains prescription files in accordance with § 12-
403(c)(13) of this title, and maintains a separate file
for Schedule II prescriptions;

J. Maintains biennial inventories and complies with
any other federal and State record-keeping
23. The inspector observed a log of prescriptions that had the Respondent had
dispensed in 2018 and 2019. Included in the log were phentermine prescriptions that the
Respondent had dispensed through October 24, 2019, which contradicts the Respondent’s
statements made under oath to Board staff the following day that he had not dispensed
phentermine since approximately April 2019 (see ¥ 21, above).

24, By letter dated January 23, 2020, the Board notified the Respondent that it
had opened in investigation into his dispensing practices based on the most recent OCSA
complaint and requested that he provide a written response.

25. | Onor about February 6, 2020, the Respondent provided his written response
to the OCSA complaint. The Respondent claimed that “the staff member responsible for
bringing us into full compliance . . . was let go in May 2019[.]” The Respondent also noted
that he has stopped dispensing all medications as of October 2019.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that:
the Respondent violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) by engaging in unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine; the Respondent violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22)
by failing to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the
delivery of quality medical care performed in an office or other location in this State; the
Respondent violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(28) by failing to comply with the provisions
of Health Occ. § 12-102, to wit: § 12-102(c)(2)(ii)(4); and the Respondent violated Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(43) by violating a rule or regulation adopted by the Board, to wit:

COMAR 10.13.01.04 and 10.32.23.06.

11
ORDER

It is thus, by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice
Medicine, dated May 26, 2020, which summarily suspended the Respondent’s Maryland
medical license, is TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s permit to dispense prescription drugs, Permit
Number 2917, is PERMANENTLY REVOKED. The Respondent shall surrender to the
Board the dispensing permit issued by the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is PERMANENTLY PROHIBITED from
prescribing and dispensing all Controlled Dangerous Substances (“CDS”) in Maryland
under Md. Code Ann., Crim. Law §§ 5-401 et seq; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is PERMANENTLY PROHIBITED from
certifying patients for the medical use of cannabis; and it is further

ORDERED that on every January 31st thereafter if the Respondent holds a
Maryland medical license, the Respondent shall provide the Board with an affidavit
verifying that the Respondent has not prescribed or dispensed any CDS or certified patients
for the medical use of cannabis in the past year; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent fails to provide the required annual verification
of compliance with these conditions:

(1) There is a presumption that the Respondent has violated these permanent
conditions; and

(2) The alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of a
Show Cause Hearing; and it is further

12
 

ORDERED that the Respondent agrees to surrender the Respondent’s CDS
Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances Administration; and it is further

ORDERED that the disciplinary panel may issue administrative subpoenas to the
Maryland Prescription Drug Monitoring Program on a quarterly basis for the Respondent’s
CDS prescriptions. The administrative subpoenas will request the Respondent’s CDS
prescriptions from the beginning of each quarter; and it is further

ORDERED that WITHIN ONE (1) YEAR from the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
($20,000). The Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to
the Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, MD 21297.
The Board will not renew or reinstate the Respondent’s medical license if the Respondent
fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION until the Respondent
takes and successfully completes a Board-approved course in ethics.4 During probation,
the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions of probation:

(1) WITHIN SIX (6) MONTHS, the Respondent must take and successfully

complete a course in ethics. The following terms apply:

(a) It is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) The disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the internet;

(c) The Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel
that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

“ If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will
be tolled.

13
(d) The course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal; and

(ec) The Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation;
and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of probation, the Respondent may submit a written petition for termination of probation.
After consideration of the petition, the Respondent’s probation may be administratively
terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel if the Respondent has complied with
all probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending complaints relating to the
charges; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office
of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines

that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this

14
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ.

§§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6) (2014 & 2019 Supp.).

Signature on File
\o/o7 / 2020
Date Christine A. Fartelly ®, ]
Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

CONSENT

I, Fidelis F. Doh, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

Lassert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.

15
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order,

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

(ofos [22.20

Signature on File

Date “Fidelis F. Doh, M.D.
Respondent
NOTARY
STATE OF and

CITY / COUNTY OF sHotgeneS

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Ge day of Oders 2020,

before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared
Fidelis F. Doh, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

Notary Pilon

My Commission expires: lod wes

KAMAL RAMCHANDAN! 4
Notary Public - State of Maryland
fAontgomery County 6
My Commission Expires Apr 4, 2023 &

 
   
 

 

 

CPU PEE
requirements relating to controlled dangerous
substances; [and]

(m) Violations; penalty. — A dentist, physician, or podiatrist who fails to

The pertinent provisions of the regulations adopted by the Board in the Code of

comply with this section governing the dispensing of prescription drugs
or devices shall:

(1) Have the dispensing permit revoked; and

(2) Be subject to disciplinary actions taken by the appropriate licensing
board.

Maryland Regulations (““COMAR”) provide:

10.13.01.04 Dispensing Requirements

E.

A licensee shall comply with the labeling requirements set forth in Health
Occupations Article, § 12-505, Annotated Code of Maryland.

A licensee shall record the dispensing of the prescription drug on the
patient’s chart.

A licensee shall, except for starter dosages or samples provided without
charge, provide the patient with a written prescription.

A licensee shall maintain biennial inventories of all stocks of controlled
substances.

A licensee shall dispense prescription drugs to a patient only when the
patient determines that a pharmacy is not conveniently available to the
patient.

In each patient’s chart for each patient to whom prescription drugs are
dispensed or in a format readily retrievable, a licensee shall maintain a
single form which:

(1) Indicates that a pharmacy is not conveniently available to the
patient;

(2) States that the determination that a pharmacy is not conveniently
available was made solely by the patient; and

(3) Is signed and dated by the patient before dispensing prescription
drugs to the patient for the first time.
O. A licensee shall display prominently a sign which informs the patient that
prescription drugs can be purchased from the permit holder if the patient
determines that a pharmacy is not conveniently available to the patient.

10.32.23.06 Requirements for Permit Holders.

A. A permit holder shall comply with all federal and State statutes and

regulations regarding prescription drugs, including all requirements for:

(1) Dispensing, including labeling;

(2) Storing and securing inventory;

(3) Allowing access only to authorized individuals;

(4) Managing inventory controls;

(5) Recordkeeping; and

(6) Submitting prescription monitoring data to the Maryland
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program in accordance with Health-
General Article, Title 21, Subtitle 2A, Annotated Code of Maryland.

B. A permit holder shall:

(1) Perform in person the final check of each drug dispensed;

(2) Sign or initial documentation in person that the final check was
completed; [and]

(3) Be present on the premises and available for consultation at the time
the drug is dispensed[.]

On September 9, 2020, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee on Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of the
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of the following

Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds:
I. BACKGROUND
1. At all relevant times, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine

in the State of Maryland. The Board initially issued the Respondent’s Maryland medical
license on October 18, 1996, under License Number D51327. His license is scheduled to
expire on September 30, 2022.!

2. The Respondent is not board-certified in any medical specialty but has
previously self-designated his practice areas as internal medicine and medical oncology.
He currently owns and operates a clinic in Laurel, Maryland, focusing on pain management
and weight loss services.

3. The Respondent holds a permit to dispense prescription drugs in the State of
Maryland. The Board first issued the Respondent’s Maryland dispensing permit on or
about June 25, 2012, under Permit Number 2917. The dispensing permit is active through
November 20, 2022.

4. The Respondent holds an active medical license in the District of Columbia.
In addition to his medical practice in Maryland, the Respondent provides services as the
medical intake director for the D.C. Department of Corrections.

II. COMPLAINTS

5. From February 2019 to December 2019, the Board received six complaints
about the Respondent’s practice, including five complaints about his opioid prescribing
practices and one complaint about his dispensing of prescription medications.

6. The first complaint, received by the Board on or about February 1, 2019, was
from a pharmacy benefits manager (the “PBM”).’ The PBM alleged that the Respondent
was “inappropriately prescribing medications containing oxycodone,” among other things.

' Panel A summarily suspended the Respondent’s medical license on May 26, 2020 and reaffirmed
that summary suspension following a post-deprivation hearing on June 10, 2020.

? To maintain confidentiality, the names of all witnesses, facilities, employees, and patients will
not be used in this document but are known to the Respondent.

5
The PBM provided the results of its investigation into the Respondent, which had found
that his most common prescription was for oxycodone 30mg, which amounted to 53% of
his total prescriptions. By comparison, the PBM pointed out that oxycodone 30mg ranked
as the 375th most common prescription by other pain management specialists in Maryland.
The PBM also noted that the Respondent rarely prescribed other pain medications such as
hydrocodone, suggesting a “‘one-size-fits-all’ approach to practicing medicine.”

7. A second complaint, dated March 22, 2019, was from the Maryland Office
of Controlled Substances Administration (“OCSA”). In its complaint, OCSA summarized
the findings it made over the course of inspections at several pharmacies, noting that the
Respondent’s prescriptions had multiple “red flags,” including “high strength/quantity,
cocktails, in-state long distance patients, out of state patients, and patients younger than 40
years old.” Asa result, OCSA labeled the Respondent as a “prescriber of note.”

8. Three subsequent complaints, received on June 18, 2019, July 23, 2019, and
September 11, 2019, were all submitted anonymously and alleged that, among other things,
the Respondent was prescribing dangerously high levels of opioids and benzodiazepines.

9. The sixth complaint, received on or about December 16, 2019, was again
from OCSA and based on a recent inspection of the Respondent’s office. The inspection
had found multiple dispensing violations, including but not limited to expired medications
mixed with regular stock, failing to provide written prescriptions to patients, non-compliant
labeling, and failing to report any dispensed controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) to
the Maryland Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (““PDMP”). The inspector also noted
that she observed multiple out-of-state license plates on cars in the parking lot when she

arrived at the Respondent’s office for the inspection.
Ill. BOARD INVESTIGATIONS

10. The Board initiated two investigations into the Respondent based on the
complaints it received. The first investigation, under Case Number 2219-0156, focused on
the Respondent’s prescribing practices. The second investigation, under Case Number
2220-0260, focused on the Respondent’s prescription medication dispensing practices.

A. Patient Records

ll. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained a PDMP report listing all CDS
prescriptions that the Respondent wrote from January 1, 2017 to March 13, 2019. Based
on the PDMP report, the Board identified ten patients who received CDS prescriptions
from the Respondent during the reviewed period (“Patients 1-10").

12. By letter dated May 20, 2019, the Board notified the Respondent of the
PBM’s complaint and served the Respondent with a subpoena for the medical records of
Patients 1-10. On or about June 12, 2019, the Respondent provided the Board with the
subpoenaed patient records and provided a treatment summary for each patient.

B. Interview of the Respondent

13. As part of its investigation, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under
oath on or about October 25, 2019.

14. The Respondent said that he completed his residency in internal medicine
and fellowship training in hematology/oncology. He explained that his pain management
training consisted of attending “pain week” trainings once every two years, attending “pain
weekend” trainings when available, and “keep[ing] up with all of the pain literature.”

15. | The Respondent admitted that he has prescribed medications to patients from

West Virginia. He also explained his procedure that if a patient has a “dirty urine,” he will
 

first “send them to a drug program,” and for “substance abuse counseling.” According to
the Respondent, if a patient has a second inconsistent urine drug screen, he will “discharge
them with a 30-day supply of medicine.”
C. Peer Review

16. As part of its investigation, the Board referred ten patient records obtained
from the Respondent (Patients 1-10) and related materials to a peer review entity.

17. Two peer reviewers who are both board-certified in pain management and
physical medicine/rehabilitation, separately reviewed the ten patient records and submitted

their individual reports to the Board.

18. The peer reviewers concurred that the Respondent did not meet the standard
of quality care for all ten patients for reasons including, but not limited to:

a. The Respondent prescribed and maintained non-cancer patients on high
doses of opioids ranging from approximately 90 to 390 MME? per day
(Patients 1-10). The Respondent prescribed all ten patients over 200
MME per day at some point over the course of their treatment;

b. The Respondent failed to reduce or make a concerted effort to attempt to
reduce opioid doses to 90 MME per day or below (Patients 1-10);

c. The Respondent continued to prescribe and refill opioids in the presence
of “inconsistent” drug screens (e.g., positive for illicit substances,
positive for non-prescribed narcotics, and/or negative for prescribed
opioids) or other aberrant behavior (e.g., self-escalation) with no
documented attempts to refer patients for substance abuse treatment and
counseling, taper the patients off opioids, or discharge the patients from
his practice (Patients 1-10);

> Morphine Milligram Equivalence (“MME”) is a value assigned to each opioid to represent its
relative potency by using morphine as the standard comparison. The CDC Guideline for Prescribing
Opioids for Chronic Pain ( the “CDC Guideline”) uses MME to establish a recommended opioid dosing
and recommends using precaution when prescribing opioid doses greater than or equal to 50 MME per day
and avoiding or carefully justifying a decision to increase opioid doses greater than or equal to 90 MME
per day.
d. The Respondent increased patients’ opioid doses based on subjective
complaints of pain but failed to document objective findings to carefully
justify increasing opioid doses significantly above the CDC Guideline
(Patients 1-10);

e. The Respondent failed to consider or refer patients for alternative
treatments such as physical or chiropractic therapy, and/or interventional
injection treatments (Patients 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 10);

f. The Respondent failed to require that patients obtain EKG studies to
assess any cardiac changes from certain opioids (Patients 5 and 8); and

g. The Respondent prescribed benzodiazepines to patients who were also
prescribed high-dose opiates without verifying anxiety diagnoses with a
mental health provider, and without providing appropriate or accurate
counseling on how to avoid dangerous or fatal interactions between the
drugs (Patients 2, 4, 6, and 8).

D. The Respondent’s Response to Peer Review Reports

19. Onor about May 14, 2020, the Respondent submitted a response to the Board
after being provided copies of the peer reviewers’ reports. The Respondent stated that,
among other things, he is “aware of the current standard of less than 90 MME/day of oral
morphine,” but that “the CDC also indicated that this is just a guideline and mostly applies
to primary care providers.” The Respondent also stated that he treats patients “holistically”
and must “thread the needle” to make sure remedial actions such as discharging patients
with aberrant behavior “were not taken at the wrong time during their treatment[.]”

E. The Respondent’s Dispensing Practices

20. On or about December 7, 2018, OCSA inspected the Respondent’s office.
The inspectors noted in their inspection report that the Respondent stocked and dispensed
phentermine (a Schedule IV CDS), among other weight-loss medications and antibiotics.

The inspectors found multiple violations, including:
Incomplete record of all stocks of CDS on hand;
b. The Respondent did not provide written prescriptions to patients;

c. No signs were prominently displayed advising patients that prescription
drugs may be purchased if a pharmacy is not conveniently located;

d. There were no signed forms in patient charts to confirm that a pharmacy
was not conveniently located to the patient;

e. Labeling did not include the date dispensed and provided an improper
expiration date;

f. The Respondent dispensed prescriptions in pre-filled plastic bags, not
in required child-proof containers;

g. The Respondent did not do final checks before medications were being
dispensed to patients; and

h. The Respondent did not report CDS to PDMP within three days of
being dispensed to patients.

21. During the interview of the Respondent on October 25, 2019 (see 4 13-15,
above), Board staff asked about the 2018 OCSA inspection. The Respondent told Board
staff that he had corrected the violations that the OCSA inspectors had cited, although he
admitted he had not started reporting CDS prescriptions to PDMP as required. He stated
that he was “not an active pharmacy” and had not dispensed phentermine for “the last . . .
six or so months.”

22. On or about December 13, 2019, OCSA again inspected the Respondent’s
office. The inspector found multiple dispensing violations, including:

a. Expired medications were mixed in with regular stock;
b. Staff was unable to locate a record of all CDS stock on hand;

c. The Respondent did not provide written prescriptions to patients;

a

Labeling did not include the date dispensed, provided an improper
expiration date, and did not include handling or storage instructions;

e. Staff was unable to provide distributor information; and

f. The Respondent did not report CDS to PDMP within three days of
being dispensed to patients.

10
