IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

SPENCER F, JOHNSON, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Respondent. *. Case Numbers: 2017-0105A

License No. D51645 * & 2017-0219A

x * + * * * x * * x x x *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

 

PROCEDURAL HISTORY

Spencer F. Johnson, M.D., is a psychiatrist, originally licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland in 1997. On January 31, 2018, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (“Board”) charged Dr. Johnson with unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)3)(i). The charges alleged that Dr.
Johnson had an inappropriate sexua! relationship with a patient’s adult daughter and that he
provided financial support to the patient and her daughter. The charges also alleged that Dr.
Johnson improperly disclosed confidential medical information about two patients.

On August 14 and 15, 2018, an Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) held an evidentiary
hearing at the Office of Administrative Hearings. On November 13, 2018, the ALJ issued a
proposed decision concluding that Dr. Johnson was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, The ALJ recommended that Dr. Johnson’s medical license be suspended
for six months and that he complete courses on confidentiality and professiona] boundaries.

The Administrative Prosecutor filed exceptions on behalf of the State, arguing that Dr.
Johnson’s license be revoked, The Administrative Prosecutor also took exception to certain

factual findings and legal conclusions made by the ALJ. Dr, Johnson filed a response requesting

1
that the Board Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) uphold the findings of facts and conclusions of
law, but asked Panel B to shorten the suspension period. On February 27, 2019, both parties
appeared before Panel B for an exceptions hearing.
FINDINGS OF FACT

The Panel adopts the ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact and, except as expressly stated in
this decision, the Discussion section! The ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact {f 1-27 and the
Discussion (pages 8-29, 30-32) are incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if
set forth in full. See attached ALJ Proposed Decision, Exhibit 12 The findings of fact were
proven by the preponderance of the evidence and are summarized below.

Dr, Johnson treated Patient 1, a 58-year-old woman, from March 23, 2009, until August
10, 2016, for psychiatric conditions. Patient 1 was often driven to her appointments by her 40-
year-old daughter, Person 1. Dr. Johnson met Person | at Patient 1°s appointment and, in 2012,
hired Person 1 to perform “fetish” or “glamour” videos of Person | smoking. During the filming
of some of these videos, Dr. Johnson regularly paid Patient 1 up to $250 per day to babysit
Person 1’s children (Patient 1’s grandchildren). Person 1 and Dr. Johnson also engaged in a
sexual relationship during this period. Over the course of their relationship, Dr. Johnson gave
Person 1 gifts and money valued between $25,000 and $30,000.

In July 2015, Dr. Johnson paid $2,000 to a funeral home for part of Patient 1°s son’s
funeral costs, Also, in July 2015, Dr. Johnson encouraged Patient 1 and Person 1 to open a hair

salon, which they did. Dr. Johnson purchased furniture for over $400 for the salon and paid the

 

1 The Panel does not adopt the ALJ’s discussion titled “Was the Respondent’s sexual relationship
with Person 1 unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine?” (pages 29-30). Panel B also
modifies the citations to the Business Occupations Article on Pages 29 and 30 to the Health
Occupations Article.

2 Names have been redacted in the ALJ decision for purposes of confidentiality. —
both parties had to go to the hospital for their injuries. - The ALJ found that Person 1 initiated the
stairwell fight and Dr. Johnson acted in self-defense, based on the testimony of Person | and Dr.
“Johnson as well as the police report. The ALJ also found that the altercation did not cause
Patient 1 or Patient 2 to cind their treatment with Dr. Johnson. |
After a review of the evidence related to the stairwell altercation and the ALJ’s analysis,
Panel B accepts the ALJ’s factual findings and finds insufficient evidence to sustain a finding of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine by Dr. Johnson during the incident? Panel B
does not grant the State’s exception, and has not taken the stairwell altercation into consideration
in its determination that Dr. Johnson is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine.
“CONCLUSION OF LAW
Disciplinary Panel B concludes, as a matter of law, that Dr. J ohnson is guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the
Health Occupations Article.
SANCTION
As a sanction, the ALJ recommended a six-month suspension of Dr. Johnson’s license to
practice medicine and that Dr. Johnson complete coursework in the confidentiality of psychiatric
treatment and in proper patient/psychiatrist boundaries. The State argues that Dr. Johnson’s
license be revoked. Dr. Johnson did not file any exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision but

requested in his response to the State’s exceptions that the sanction be reduced. He argues that

 

3 Panel B agrees with the State that credibility findings are due only for “demeanor-based
credibility assessments specifically,” not for “credibility assessments generally.” Elliott, 170
” Md. App. at 394. Here, the findings were not demeanor-based factual findings and, therefore,
are not entitled to any deference. See Department of Health & Mental Hygiene v. Shrieves, 100
Md. App. 283, 302 (1994). Nevertheless, in light of the evidence presented, Panel B adopts the
ALJ’s factual findings.

‘ 11
his conduct was less severe that a 2006 Board action concerning a psychiatrist who engaged in
boundary violations and was suspended for two years, with all but six months stayed. Dr.
Johnson also argues that several mitigating factors apply: he has no prior discipline, this was an
isolated incident unlikely to recur, and he has accepted responsibility for his conduct. See
COMAR 10.32.02.09B(5)(a), (f), @.

When deciding on a sanction, the disciplinary panel may consider aggravating and
mitigating factors in the Board’s regulations. COMAR 10.32.02.09B. The following mitigating
factor is present in this case: Dr. Johnson has no prior disciplinary record, COMAR
10,32.02.09B(5)(a). Panel B rejects Dr. Johnson’s claim that he has been rehabilitated and that
this is an isolated incident. COMAR 10.32.02.09B(5)(f), (i).

In terms of aggravating factors, Panel B adopts the ALJ’s finding that Dr. Johnson made
misleading, false, and incomplete statements in his sworn statement before the Board. He also
made false, misleading, and disingenuous statements to the ALJ in his testimony. COMAR
10,32.02.09B)(6)(i), In his testimony he denied having a sexual relationship with Person 1 and
denied making some of the payments to Patient 1. Dr. Johnson did not take responsibility for
disclosing confidential information regarding Patient 2’s diagnosis. Dr. Johnson’s boundary
violations and disclosures of confidential information were committed deliberately, the boundary
violations and disclosures were each factually discrete offenses or series of offenses adjudicated
in a single action, and psychiatric patients are especially vulnerable. COMAR
10.32.02.09B(6)(b), (e), and (g).

Dr. Johnson’s boundary violations were severe and troubling, As a psychiatrist, his
patients are particularly vulnerable and rely on the trust established in a psychiatrist/patient
relationship. Dr, Johnson intertwined his personal life with Patient 1 and her daughter with his

12
professional role as Patient 1’s psychiatrist. His sexual relationship with Patient 1°s daughter, his
financial contributions to Patient 1, and his social relationship with Patient | eviscerated the
required professional boundaries.

Additionally, Dr. Johnson ignored the ethical principles of confidentiality by improperly
disclosing medical information about another patient to a woman with whom he had a sexual
relationship. As a psychiatrist, Dr. Johnson’s patients divulge to him highly sensitive
information and deeply personal thoughts and feelings. His patients may have a mental illness or
other serious psychiatric conditions that could carry a serious social stigma. The improper
disclosure of psychiatric information jeopardizes the necessity for open and honest
communication between patients and psychiatrists.

Disciplinary Panel B imposes the following sanction: Dr. Johnson’s license shall be
suspended for a minimum period of one year. Dr. Johnson shall enroll in the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program and shall follow all the customary provisions for evaluation
and treatment. Dr, Johnson shall also complete two courses within a year concerning the
confidentiality of the psychiatrist-patient communications and on the proper boundaries in the
treatment of patients. Upon petition from Dr. Johnson and upon review of an evaluation by
MPRP, Panel B may terminate the suspension and impose any additional terms, if any, upon Dr.

Johnson,

ORDER

It is, by an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel B, hereby

13
ORDERED that Spencer F. Johnson MDs license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED for a minimum period of ONE YEAR.’ The suspension goes into effect 30 days
from the date of execution of this Order, to give Dr. Johnson time to transition his patients to
other providers and the following provisions apply during the suspension:

(1) Dr. Johnson shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the
public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Johnson’s name or provider number
by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(e) dispense medications; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license;

(2) Dr. Johnson shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(“MPRP”), Within 5 business days, Dr. Johnson shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, Dr. Johnson shall enter into
a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP.
Dr. Johnson shal! fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals,
rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions of any
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
into with MPRP and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

(3) Dr. Johnson shall sign written release/consent forms, and update them, as required by
the Board and MPRP. Dr, Johnson shall sign written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order. Dr.
Johnson shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(4) Dr. Johnson shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive. from) outside entities (including all of Dr.
Johnson’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Dr. Johnson and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical

 

4 The suspension will not be terminated if Dr. Johnson fails to renew his license. If Dr. Johnson’s
license expires while his license is suspended, the suspension period is tolled. COMAR
10.32.02,05C(3).

14
records of Dr. Johnson, including, but not limited to, mental health.and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Johnson shall not withdraw his/her release/consent;

(5) within ONE YEAR, Dr. Johnson shall successfully complete two Board-approved
courses, One course shall be about maintaining confidentiality of the psychiatrist-patient
relationship, A second course shall be about maintaining proper boundaries in the
treatment of patients and in the psychiatrist-patient relationship. The following terms
apply: :
(a) it is Dr. Johnson’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the disciplinary
panel’s approval of the course before the course'is begun,
(b) the disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the internet,
(c) Dr. Johnson must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that he has
successfully completed the course;
(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal; ;
(e) Dr. Johnson is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further
ORDERED that, prior to the termination of suspension, MPRP, or its agents, shall
conduct an evaluation to determine whether Dr. Johnson is-fit to resume clinical practice, and if
so, under what conditions. Dr. Johnson shall fully cooperate with the evaluation; and it is further
ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Final Decision
and Order has passed and if Dr. Johnson has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and
conditions for the suspension, Dr. Johnson may submit a written petition to Disciplinary Panel B
for termination of the suspension. Dr. Johnson may be required to appear before Disciplinary
Panel B to discuss his petition for termination. If Disciplinary Panel B determines that it is safe
for Dr. Johnson to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be terminated through
an order of Disciplinary Panel B, and Disciplinary Panel B may impose any terms and conditions
it deems appropriate on Dr. Johnson’s return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation.

If Disciplinary Panel B determines that it is not safe for Dr. Johnson to return to the practice of

medicine, the suspension shall be continued through an order of Disciplinary Panel B for a length

15
of time determined by Disciplinary Panel B, and Disciplinary Panel B may impose any
additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Johnson is responsible for.all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Johnson allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Final Decision and Order, Dr. Johnson shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If Disciplinary Panel B determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel, If Disciplinary Panel B
determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Johnson shall be given a show
cause hearing before Disciplinary Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Dr. Johnson has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Final Decision and
Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr. Johnson, place Dr. J ohnson on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke
Dr. Johnson’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition
to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on Dr. Johnson; and
it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Final Decision and Order is the date the Final
Decision and Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director

signs the Final Decision and Order on behalf of Disciplinary Panel B; and it is further

16
ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§

1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6); and it is further

o2/o4J2014 Signature on File

Date - Christine A. Farrelly, Ekedative Director ( ]
Maryland State Board of Physicians \

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408(a), Dr. Johnson has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within 30 days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md, Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If Dr. Johnson files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
David S. Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

17
Exhibit 1 —
MARYLAND BOARD OF * BEFORE MICHAEL D. CARLIS, .
"PHYSICIANS — * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
wo * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE
SPENCER F. JOHNSON, M.D.; « OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS |

RESPONDENT :

LICENSE No.: DS1645 ~&  QAHNo.: MDB-MBP2-71-18-08607

Ck
PROPOSED DECISION

Ct

STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE.
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT -
DISCUSSION
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
On January 31, 2018, a disciplinaty panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(Board) issued charges (Charges) apaiiist Spencer F, Johnson, M.D. (Respondent) alleging a
violation of the State law governing the. practice of medicine. “Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. —
§§ 14-101 through 14-508, and 14-601 ‘through 14-607 (2014 & Supp. 2018). Specifically, the
Board charged the Respondent with: violating section 14~ 404(2)3)@) of the Health Occupations
. Article. Id. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) Supp. 2018); See Code. of Maryland Regulations (COMAR)
10.32.02.03E(3)(4). The disciplinary panel to which the complaint was assigned forwarded the
Charges to the Office of the Attorney General for prosecution, and this matter was delegated to
the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH) for issuance of a proposed decision. COMAR

10.32.02.038(5); COMAR 10.32.02.04B(1). |
[held a hearing on Avgtist 14 and 15, 2018, at the OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Mad.
Code Ann., Health Oco. § 14-405(a) (Supp. 2018); COMAR 10.32.02.04. Andrew E. Vernick,
Esquire, and Christopher J. Greaney, Esquire, and Vernick & Associates, represented the -
Respondent, who was present.at the hearing. Victoria WH. Pepper, Assistant Attorney General and
Administrative Prosecutor, and the Office of the Attomey General, represented the State of
Maryland (hereinafter referred to as the Board).

Procedure.in this case is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the OAH. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2014 & Supp.
2018); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01. ,

1 Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations

Article?’ Ifso, .

,

2. What sanction(s) ate appropriate?

 

SUMMARY-OF THE EVIDENCE
Exhibits

 

_Tadmitted the following exhibits into evidence at the Board’s request:

Bd. Ex, 1: Complaint Form, dated August 8, 2016, with attachments;
- Bd. Ex. 2: Complaint Form, dated September 5, 2016, with attachments;

 

‘1 conducted a prehearing conference regarding this case on July 26, 2018, The parties were represented by the
same ‘counsel identified above, On July 30, 2018, I issued-a Prehearing Conference Report (Report) in which the
issues were more specifically identified. The Report also instructed the parties to report any disagreement with “the
accuracy or completeness ofthe Report” to'ni¢ within seven days. Neither party reported any disagreement. The
issues listed in the Report idenitified the Respondent's acts that by itself or in context allegedly supported the
statutory Violation: @) paying.a patient to babysit her adult daughter's children while the daughter participated in a
video shoot by the Respondent, (ii) encouraging and’financially supporting the patient and her adult daughter to
open a hair salon, (iii) engaging in a sexual relationship and physical altercation with the adult daughter of a patient,
(iy) disclosing confidential medical information about he patient to patient’s adult daughter and talking about two
additional patients while drinking wine with a patient and her daughter in the hair salon, (v) disclosing confidential
medical informnation about a different patient to’ the adult daughter of a patient, (vi) making derogatory remarks to a

* patient about another patient's daughter, who also was a patient, and (vii) calling patients retarded in the presence of
a patient during a treatment session. Those specific allegations are addressed in this decision.

2
:

monthly rent of approximately $900 per month for at least a year. Dr. Johnson also socialized
and drank wine with Patient 1 and Person 1 at the hair salon.

- Beginning in March 2011, Dr. Johnson treated Patient 2, a 40-year-old woman. When he
spoke to Patient 2, Dr. Johnson referred to patients in his waiting room as “retarded.” Also, in
front of Patient 1 and Person 1, Dr. Johnson referred to Patient 2’s 14-year-old daughter, another
one of his patients, as “retarded.” Additionally, Dr. Johnson talked about Patient 2’s diagnosis in
front of Person 1 and stated, in front of Person 1 and Patient 1, that Patient 2 would frequently
request a change in her medication during her therapy sessions.

On August 6, 2016, Dr. Johnson and Person 1 had a physical altercation in the stairwell
in the office building where Dr. Johnson’s office was located. The police were called, and both
Person 1 and Dr. Johnson sought treatment for injuries they sustained during the fight. After the
altercation, Dr, Johnson terminated his treatment of Patient 1. The Board finds these facts by a —
preponderance of the evidence.

LEGAL ANALYSIS

Unprofessional Conduct in the Practice of Medicine, Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(3) Gi)

In determining whether Dr. Johnson’s actions constitute unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, Panel B has considered whether his conduct was unprofessional and
whether it was “in the practice of medicine.” .

’ Unprofessional Conduct

” Unprofessional conduct is defined as “conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of
a profession, or which is conduct unbecoming a memiber of good standing of a profession.”
Finucan vy. Maryland Board of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577, 594 (2004).

Unprofessional conduct may also be found when a physician abuses his or her status as a

3
Bd, Ex. 3: Transcript of Person 1's interview, dated September 27, 2016 2
Bd. Ex. 4: Copies of photographs, hospital records, police report, financial records, and records
from Colony South;
Bd, Ex. 5; Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated September-29, 2016,
Bd, Ex. 6: Transcript of Patient 1’s interview, dated October 11, 2016;
Bd. Ex, 7: Subpoena Duces.Tecum, dated September 26, 2016, with attached medical reports;
Ba. Ex, 8: Subpoena Duces Tectim, dated September 28, 2016, with attached legal documents;
Bd. Ex. 9: Complaint Form, dated November 13, 2016, with attachments,
Bd: Ex. 10: Transcript of Patient 2’s interview, dated November 29, 2016;4
Ba, Ex. 1]: Complaint Form, dated March 10, 2017; ,
Bad. Ex, 12: Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated March 31, 2017, with attached documents,
Bd, Ex. 13: Electroftic communication, dated April 28, 2017;
Bd. Ex. 14: Electronic communication, dated April 28, 2017, with attachments;
Bd, Ex. 15: Electronic communication, dated-May 1, 2017, with. attachments;
Bd, Ex. 16: Electronic communication, dated May 1, 2017, with attachments;
| Bd. Ex.-17: Electronic communication, dated May 1, 2017, with attachments;
Bd. Ex. 18: Electronic communication, dated May 1, 2017, with attachments;
Bd, Ex. 19: Electronic communication, dated May 1, 2017, with attachments;
Bd. Ex. 20; Electfonic communication, dated May 1, 2017, with attachments;
Ba, Ex. 21: Electronic communication, dated May |, 2017, with attachments;
Bd. Ex, 22; Memorandum Of Visit To Patient 1, dated May 24,2017;
Bd. Ex. 23: Electronic communication, dated May 24, 2017, with attachment;
Bd. Ex, 24: Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated May 25, 2017, with attached medical notes;
Bd. Ex,.25: Transcript of interview of Patient 1, dated July 19, 2017; /
Bd. Ex. 26: Subpoena Ad Testificandum, with attached transcript of interview of Arthur
Halvorson, dated August 8, 2017;
Bd. Ex. 27: Subpoena Ad Testificandum, with attached transcript of interview of the
Respondent, dated August 22, 2017; '
Bd, Ex. 28: Agreement For Talent Participation, dated August 14, 2012;
Bd. Ex. 29: Subpoena.Duces Tecum, dated August 30, 2017, with attached Lease Agreement;
Bd. Ex. 30: Subpoena Duces Tecum, dated March 31, 2017, with a single attachment;
Bd. Ex.31: Response to Complaint, dated April 21, 2107, with attachments tabbed. 1-
22 that correspond to exhibit references in the Response; ~
Bd. Ex. 32: Charges Under The Maryland Medical Practice Act, dated January 31, 2017;
Bd. Ex. 33: Prescription form, dated Aiigust 6, 2018;
Bd, Ex, 35:5 Order of Reinstatement, dated August 15, 2016; and
Bd. Ex. 36: The Principles of Medical Ethics, 2013 Edition.

enn

2 Person 1 is uséd instead of the individual’s proper hame for privacy reasons.

} See footnote 2. ; .

«See footnote 2. Patietit-2. was'previouisly known as All :

Bd. Ex, 34 was not adinitted: “Bd, Ex. 37 was marked for identification, but not admitted,

3
I admitted the following exhibits into evidence-at the Respondent’s request:

Resp. Ex. 1: Investigative results, and thirty-two pages for information of various kinds; and
Resp. Ex. 2: Person 1’s complaint against Jo-Anne Bragg, dated June 25, 2017. ;

Testimony
The following witnesses testified for the Board:®
® Arthur Halvorson, businessman,” .
° Amanda Kate Miller, Compliance Analyst with the Board;®
e Person 1; and, |
® Patient 2.
The Respondent testified for himself, arid pioaented the following witness:

© Jo-Anne Bragg, Counselor.

 

§ On behalf of the Board, the OAH issued a subpoena to Patient 1 for her appearance and testimony, Patient 2 did.
not appear or testify at the hearing. Instead, she had provided a note to Ms. Pepper from a physician, dated August
6, 2018, who, at best, suggested her mental health condition prevented her appearance. The hearing proceeded
without Patient 1’s testimony. During Ms. Miller’s testimony, after she was first asked about her interview with
Patient 1, the Respondent objected to any testimony about that interview based on Patient 1’s failure to appear to
testify, I overruled that objection and allowed the investigator’s testimony (and the transcript of Patient 1's sworn
interview), However, it was agreed that Ms. Pepper would contact Patient 4 to inform ‘her that the subpoena
required her attendance, provide her the option to testify by telephone, and instruct her that if she refused to appear
or testify by phone, OAH would initiate enforcement of the subpoena through the judiciary. At the end of that day’s
testimony, the Respondent indicatéd he no longer wanted to pursue obtaining Patient 1’s compliance with the
subpoena. Thé Board raised no objection. .
7 Mir. Walvorson is the sole owner of limited liability companies that.own and manage properties, including
properties leased by the Respondent to opetate his medical practice.

Ms, Miller is the compliance analyst who, with another compliance arialyst, conducted interviews with Patients 1
and 2, Person 1, and the Réspéndent-during the Board’s investigation of the complaints against the Respondent. A
different compliance ‘analyst conducted the interview of Mr. Halvorson, — ’

4
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

The-Parties stipulated to the following facts:
1. The Board originally licensed the Respondent to practice medicine on February 11, 1997.
2. The Respondent holds an active. license to practice medicine in Maryland and the District of
Columbia. | .
3. The Respondent is Board-certified in psychiatry.
4. At all times relevant to this matter, the Respondent maintained an office for the private
practice of psychiatry in Prince George’s County, Maryland. .
5. No prior adverse action has been taken against the Respondent’s license to practice medicine,

I find the following facts by a prepondsrance of the evidence. .
6, The Respondent treated Patient 1 as an out-patient at his office in Prince George’s County
from on or about March 23, 2009, until August 10, 2016. The Respondent discharged Patient 1
as his patient after she failed to respond to the Respondent’s discharge letter mailed to her on or
about August 10, 2016. The Respondent diagnosed and treated Patient 1 for major depression
and generalized anxiety disorder:
7. Atthe time of hearing, Patient 1 was a fifty-eight year old female: She was not employed
when she began treatment with the Respondent, but réceived.a disability retirement allowance
from the federal government for at least part of the time during her treatment.
8. On or about July 2015, Patient 1’s son, who was Person 1’s brother, died. The Respondent
paid $2,000.00 to cover at least part ofthe son’s funeral expenses.
9. Person 1.is the adult daughter of Patient 1. At the time of the hearing, Person 1 was forty
years old. She would sometimes drive Patient 1 to her appointments with the Respondent, which

is-how Person 1 met thé-Respondent.
10. The Respondent treated Patient 2. as an out-patient at his office in Princé George’s County.
One of the Respondent’s intake forms on Patient 2 indicates she began treatment in March 2011.
. The Respondent diagnosed-and treated Patient 2 for obsessive compulsive disorder and bipolar 1
disorder, At the time of the hearing, Patient 2 was forty-eight years old. |

11. Patient 2 has a daughter, a. who was fourteen years old at the time of the hearing. She

was a patient of the Respondent, He treated her for attention deficit disorder from sometime in.

2012 to July 2016. .

12. In addition to the Respondent’s practice of psychiatry, at all relevant time, he owned and

operated a video production company in which he produced video features of different lengths

and types. The video company operated from thé ‘satie professional building where the

Respondent had his psychiatry practice, but in a different office,

. 13, Beginning in or about August 2012, the Respondent engaged Person | to perform “fetish” or
“slamour” videos. These were smoking videos in which Person 1 would be filmed inhaling and
exhaling cigarette smoke, The Respondent paid Person 1 between $100.00 and $300.00 for each

. video shoot.

14: The Respondent paid Patient 1 up to $250.00 to babysit Person 1’s children while Person 1

_ performed in the glamour or fetish videos and at other times. | ,

15. Ona date that is not specifically established in the record, the Respondent and Person 1
began a sexual relationship. During the course of that relationship, the Respondent gave Person’
1 money and gifts with a total value between $25,000.00 to 30,000.00.

16. Ona date that is not specifically established in the récord, the Respondent referred to other
patients who were in the waiting area of his office as “retarded” arid said they become easily

Q

agitated if they have to wait for their appointment, The Respondent said this to Patient 2.
17. Ona date that is not specifically identified in the record, the Respondent referred oi
as retarded in front of Patient 1 and Person 1.

18. Ona date that is not specifically identified in the'record, the ‘Respondent talked about Patient
2's diagnosis in front of Person 1-and said Patient 2 would frequently request 2 change in her
medication during therapy sessions in front.of Person 1 and Patient 1,

19, At some time around July 2015, the Respondent encouraged Person | and Patient 1 to open
and operate a hair salon. In November 2015, the Respondent paid the Maryland Department of
Assessments and Taxation $150.00 for Articles of Amendment for ae a limited
liability company operated by Person | and Patient 1. In addition, the Respondent purchased
furniture and paid the monthly rent for the salon.

20. The Respondent would often socialize with Patient 1 and Person | at the salon.

21. On August 6,'2016, the Respondent and Person 1 physically fought each other in the
stairwell between the third and fourth floor of the office building where the Respondent’s
psychiatry practice was Jocated.? Batlier that day, Person 1 had sent ali angry, threatening, and
profane text message to the Respondent. She arrived uninvited at the Respondent's office,
during office hours, to obtain money from him. The Respondent escorted Person 1 out of the
office and into the stairwell where the fight took place. -

22. On Augtist 6, 2016, Person 1 sought treatment for injuries that she suffered during the fight —
at MedStar Southern Maryland Hospital Center (Hospital). Her primary diagnoses included
assault by human bite, muscle pain, contusion of multiple sites, fractured nasal bones, and victim

of physical assault. She was treated, prescribed medication, and discharged.

 

9 The Respondent's psychiatry practice was on the third floor. He also leaséd office space on the fourth floor, where
the Video shoots with Person.1 took place, .

7
23. On August 6, 2016, the Respondent sought medical treatment at Patient First. He was
diagnosed with contusions and abrasions of the head, . .

24, Patient 2°s last appointment with the Respondent was in May 2016. Sometime toward the
end of July 2016, Patient 1 cancelled her last scheduled appointnient with him. She never
returned. On’September 6, 2016, the Respondent sent her a letter terminating the doctor-patient
relationship because he-had learned ghe was receiving mental health services elsewhere.

25. On August 10, 2016, the Respondent sent a letter to Patient 1 in which he terminated their
doctor-patient relationship.

26. The Respondent did not maintain proper professional boundaries during his treatment of
‘Patient 1.

27. The Respondent disclosed confidential information he obtained during treatment about his:
treatment of Patient 1, a and other unidentified patients. .

DISCUSSION

 

Summary of the Complaints that triggered the Charges

The Board received written complaints about the Respondent from Patient | and Patient
2. On a date identified in the Charges as on or about August 16, 2016, the Board received
Patient 1’s complaint.’ Patient 1 complaizied she was no longer “comfortable being” a patient of
the Respondent “since he physically assaulted my daughter [Person 1] at his workplace.” She
reported her depression got worse. She described the assault as “almost killing her by-stumping
& kicking her down the stairs” and she’stated it“left me mentally angry and back to my major

depression...” Patient 1 traced the origin of her “negative feelings” toward the Respondent to

 

10 The Board identified this complaint as Case Number 2017-0150A.\

8
when he “opposed” [sic] Person 1 for-a date during one of her sessions. She desctibed that as
“rude,” “disrespectful,” “cocky,” and “distasteful.” Patient 1 also complained that the
Respondent’s relationship with Person 1 caused “conflict” in her treatment “from him repeating

to-my child my privacy discussions we held during my sessions.” Patient 1 felt “violated” and

' believed the Respondent did not care about her,

On a date identified in the Charges as on or about November 17, 2016, the Board
received a complaint from Patient 2." Patient 2 complained that the Respondent disclosed
information about her diagnosis and treatment to Person 1. She. claimed those disclosures
exacerbated a somatic condition that ultimately led to a hospitalization. Patient 2 also
complained that the Respondent called PIRI “vetardea” and refused to send her (Patient 2’s)
medical records to het new psychiatrist.” .

Legal Context
Section 14-404 of the Health Occupations Article provides as follows:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations —
Grounds.

(a) In generéil, — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on-the affirmative vote ofa maj ority of the quorum of the
disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,” place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license if the.licensee: , ,

(3) Is guilty of:
Gi) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine... .

Mad. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) (Supp. 2018).

nro

4 The Board identified this complaint as Case Number 2017-02194. Oo

"The Board identified this complaint as Case Number 2017-0219A. This complaint is dated November 13, 2016.
Patient 2 filed another complaint against the Respondent: This one is ‘dated September 5, 2016.

13 Licensee” is “an individual to whom a license is issued, including an individual practicing medicine within or as
a proféssional corporation or professional association.” Md. Code.Ann., Health Occ. § 14-101) Supp. 2018).

?
The Board’s enforcement powers include a broad range. of sanctions upon finding a
violation of section 14-404. In addition-to those set forth above in section 14-404(a), the Board.
may irpose’a financial penalty against an‘offending physician. Section 14-405.1 provides:.

§ 14-405.1. Penalty instead of suspension or in addition to suspension or
revocation.

(a) Imposition of penalty, — If after a hearing under § 14-405 of this subtitle
a disciplinary panel finds that there are grounds under § 14-404 of this subtitle
to suspend or revoke a license to practice medicine of osteopathy, or to reprimand
a licensed physician or osteopath, the disciplinary panel may impose a fine subject
to the Board’s regulations: . ‘ a
(1) Instead of suspending the license; or
(2) In addition to suspending or revoking the license or reprimanding the
licensee.
(b) Disposition of funds. — The Board shall pay any fines collected under this
section into the General Fund. .
Id. § 14-405.1;,see also COMAR 10.32.02.09 (addressing disciplinary sanctions and the
imposition of fines); and COMAR 10.32.02.10 (providing a chart that lists maximum and
minimum sanctions and fines for specific violations).
Preliminary Credibility Determinations"

_ The parties almost exclusively focused on the credibility of Person 1 and the Respondent
during their closing arguments. The Board argued that the Respondent’s extortion defense is not
credible for several reasons.!® First, the Board argued that the Respondent did not take any
reasonable actions in response to Person 1’s extortion plan, for example, seeking. advice and

guidance from’a trusted friend or colleague or contacting the police, Second, the Board argued.

that the affection he showed Person 1 in his electronic communications with her belie his

 

47 address the issive of the Respondent’s and Person'1's credibility at the outset of this ‘decision because both are
critical witnesses. I later address the Board's specific allegations of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine during which J comment on the credibility of Patients-1 and 2. ‘
S The Respondent denied a sexual relationship with Person 1, He testified Person | extorted him for money and
gifts by threatening to expose a madé-up sexual affair he was having with her.

10
extortion defense. Third, the Board argued that the Respondent’ s “parsing” responses to
questions during direct examination undermined his credibility. .

The Respondent argued that Person J is not credible for at least two reasons. First
Respondent argued that during her testimony, Person 1 “readily admitted she had committed a
fraud” by using a letter that falsely stated she was employed with.a good salary in order to.
purchase a luxury automobile. Second, Ms. Bragg, an unbiased witness; testified that Person 1
had victimized her by falsély complaining she engaged in unprofessional misconduct while
providing service to Person 1.

Person 1’s credibility

During the hearing, Person 1 unapologetically admitted to intentionally obtaining and
" using a wholly false written statement to purchase a luxury automobile. Board Ex. 22 includes a
letter on Ea letterhead, dated March 13, 2015. The letter is addressed to
Person 1 and states:

[Person 1] please see the following information as proof of your ‘employment
with

[Person 1] is the site supervisor for-all the EE oh

contract with us, She is responsible for ensuring all work is completed at 4

locations, she has been an employee since 2/03/2014. She is a salaried employee

and is exempt from overtime. [Person Ps] salary is $68,000 per year. She has

elected not to enroll in or [sic] employee benefits program and has her own health

insurance. If you have any questions please contact me at 301-978-1540.
Bd. Ex. 22, This letter is signed by an individual identified as the “Managing Partner.” At the
hearing, Person 1 admitted that she was unemployed at the time this letter was written. She
farther admitted that she used this wholly false letter to purchase a BMW XS. During cross-
examination, she at first testified that the Respondent allowed her to use Skytocket Production,

his video production company, to purchase the automobile. Upon further questioning, she
é

changed that testimony to say that the Respondent “hooked” this up for her “through one of his

Ti
" sources.” The letter establishes Person Vs willingness to use false statements and deceit to
mislead others to unwittingly assist her to obtain something that the truth would have made
impossible. By Person 1’s unapologetic admission of deceit, I find that her credibility ©
substantially tarnished. Nonetheless, I do not conclude that her testimony is categorically
without any probative value, The probative weight, ifany, I give to Person Ps testimony about
any material fact shall be determined by a consideration of her testimony in the context of the

full relevant evidentiary: record. However, I decide here that Person 1’s testimony, alone, shall
be insufficient to support a factual finding.'®
The Respondent’s credibility

In regard to the Respondent, Thave equally strong reservations about his credibility for
the following reasons. First, the Respondent sworn statements during his interview by the. Board
on August.22, 2017, were sometimes misleading, false, or ‘incomplete. The following are
examples. When asked to discuss his-involvement in the salon, he said he encouraged Patient 1
to start a business and agreed to place advertisements about the salon in his office, refer
acquaintances to the salon, and provide her the name of someone experienced in setting up
businesses. He mentioned nothing else. When shown a document from the Department of |
Assessments and Taxation and asked why ie made payments to'that agency on behalf of the
salon, he said it “might have been given'as a gift.” When asked if he could recall paying any
other money for the salon, he stated, “I do not.” However, when again shown documentation of
a purchase his production company made for the salon in October 2015, he testified, “Those I do
recall, now that there’s, you’ve shown them to me. I did not remember them before.” Finally,

when asked questions about paying rent for the hair salon, the Respondent was disingenuous, at

 

6} have not considered Ms. Brage’s testimony ‘in this discussion because the allegations related to Person 1 *s
complaint against her has not beet adjudicated.

12
physician in such a manner as to harm patients or diminish the standing of the medical profession
in the eyes of a reasonable member of the general public. Id. at 601.

Panel B finds that the rules or ethical code of the profession include the American
Psychiatric Association’s Principles of Medical Ethics with Annotations Especially Applicable to
Psychiatry, 2013 Edition (“Principles of Ethics”). The Principles of Ethics are guidelines
reflecting the ethical parameters and professional boundaries for psychiatrists.

The Principles of Ethics warn against the blurring of boundaries between psychiatrists
and their patients. The Principles of Ethics require a psychiatrist to “be ever vigilant about the
impact that his or her conduct has upon the boundaries of the doctor-patient relationship, and.
thus upon the well-being of the patient.” Principles of Ethics § 1.1. The Principles of Ethics
further state, a “psychiatrist shall not gratify his or her own needs by exploiting the patient.” Id.
The Principles of Ethics also provide that “[a] physician shall uphold the standards of
professionalism, [and] be honest in all professional interactions.” Jd. at § 2.

In Finucan, a physician was found guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine for having sexual relationships with patients. Finwcan, 380 Md. at 586. The expert in
Finucan explained why sexual relationships with patients are problematic:

First, the sexual relationships may grow out of and become entangled with the

physician-patient relationship. Second, a physician places himself or herself in the

position of being able to exploit his or her intimate knowledge of his or her
patients and their families in order to advance the physician’s sexual interests.

Third, a physician is placed in a position where he or she may lose objectivity and

place his or her own needs for gratification above the patient’s wishes or best

interests. Finally, there is a real danger that these relationships may damage the

patient in a number of ways.

Finucan, 380 Md. at 599.
best. When asked if he-paid rent for the salon, he said he was not “responsible” for the rent and
did not pay rent for the salon to Mr. Halvorson: That was misleading, disingenuous, and’
illustrate a willingness to mock honesty. Regardless of to whom the Respondent wrote the rent
checks, he paid the rent for the salon to Mr, Halvorson, Mr. Halvorson was interviewed by: the
Board and he testified-at the hearing. In his statements to the Board, :hé made ¢lear that he'dealt
directly with the Respondent; that the Respondent kriew exactly who he was; and that the.
Respondent paid rent for the salon. Mr. Halvorson was ai unbiased, credible witness, Based on
this, and based on my demeanor-based observations of the Respondent during his testimony, and
more,!” I have strong reservations about the Respondent’s credibility. Therefore, his testimony,
alone, alone is insufficient to satisfactorily establish a fact or adequately refute the combined
_ weight of other evidence.

Factual matters
The hair salon

The Board alleged that the Respondent encouraged Patient’ 1 and Person! to open a hair
salon business and financially supported Ea the salon, The Respondent did tot .
specifically dispute that allegation. oS

In his recorded. interview in August 2017, the Respondent said he “encouraged” Patient 1
to start a hair salon. He admitted he paid to help set up the salon and admitted he paid over
$400.00 for a piece of furniture for the salon. At the hearing, the Respondent testified “the -
relationship with the hair salon as far'as 1 was concerned was with the daughter only.) He

conceded, however, that-he “became aware that [Patient 1] was working there.”

en te

"It is clear that the Respondent knowingly assisted Person | in obtaining the letter falsely attesting to her
employment status and salary discussed above.
8 This testimony contradicted his statemelit to the Board.

13
In her recorded interview in October 2016, Patient.1 said the salon was for her and
Person 1. Person | testified the salon was for her and Patient 1, Person 1 identified documents
that showed the Respondent’s payment for furniture and to the Department of Assessment and
Taxation for the salon. Person 1 also identified electronic messages in which thé Respondent
. admitted paying rent for the salon, Mr. Halvorson téstified that the Respondent paid rent for the
salon for “at least a year.” Accordingly, I find that, during his treatment of Patient 1, the
Respondent encouraged Patient 1 and Person 1 to open a hair salon and provided them with
regular and significant ongoing financial assistance to operate Eze.
The sexual and financial relationship with Person 1 |
Person 1 testified that the Respondent was her “boyfriend” for five years. She testified
that she and the Respondent had a sexual relationship, During the Board’s interview, Person 1
stated she that she had “sex” with the Respondent and stated they were “intimate,” starting
sometime in 2012. Person 1 testified that the Respondent frequently gave her money and paid
for expensive gifts. ‘
Patient 1 told the Board that she witnessed affection between Person 1 and the
Respondent and were-with them during bank transactions.
During his testimony, the Respondent specifically denied a sexual relationship with
Person 1. During his Board interview, the Respondent also denied a sexual relationship with
Person 1, and that he “absolutely” had no sexual relationship with any relatives of his patients.
He admitted frequently giving Person 1 money, totaling as much as $30,000.00.
The Respondent contended that he paid Person 1 large sums of money and helped with
the salon because Person | was extorting him. He claimed she threatened to ruin his marriage
and reputation in the community by falsely exposing that they weré having a sexual affair. In

regard to the hair salon, he.also explained his largess this way: “I was ‘hoping that over time it

14
would be enough revenue generated that the hair salon would be my way out of this.” The
Respondent provided no corroboration of any of this this testimony.
In addition, the Respondent explained that he “had never been in a situation like that

before, and I didn’t know what to do... who I could turn to for help.” He testified he-did not

" contact the police or seck advice from a colleague because he “didn’t know that that would be a
resource.” The Respondent testified, however, thathe “informally” spoke to a friend, who is an
attomey, about the extortion. The Respondent did not offer this friend as a witness to
corroborate that conversation or explain why the friend was unavailable to testify. It simply does
not make common sense that the Respondent would not offer the only witness who could support
the theory of his case, unless, of course, there was actually no friend to testify. Accordingly, for
this reasons discussed above about the Respondents credibility, and considering the above
discussion, { am not persuaded by the Respondent’s extortion theory explains his generosity
toward Person |. Rather, what makes more common sense is that his largess a function of his
sexual relationship with Person 1. |

_ The record also provides additional support for a finding that the Respondent had a

sexual relationship with Person 1 and that extortion was not the reason he gave Person la
substantial amount of money and assistance for the salon. The additional support comes from
very familiar and ostensibly affectionate electronic communications between the Respondent and
Person 1. In ime 2016, Person 1 commented that the Respondent had not talked to her about
business plans and wondered whether he-was against her. The Respondent replied that he gave
money to her-as “a gift” and: “Do not ask me again ever-if Pm-against you, You know the | :
answer is NO1AM NOT against you.” In another message, the Respondent refered Person 1 as
“Pepe” and “Sstinker [sic].” In another message, the Respondent assured Person 1 that he was

“gn a mission [sic] that supports yours.” Person 1-referred to the Respondent in a message as

15
“Daddy.” She testified that the Respondent wanted her to call him that Another exchange of
messages included the following from the Respondent: “Quiet Pepe. Pulling the last few pieces -
together. You are a brat and a stinker. But in spite of it all you are also loved.” Person |

replied: “[H]appy to hear you have love for me. Thanks I needed to hear that.”

At the hearing, the Respondent testified that these text inessages were his way of trying
“to channel back negativity with something neutral or positive.” He explained that “Pepe” was a
reference to Pepe Le Pew, the anthropomorphic French skunk of Looney Tunes fame, and was —
meant to be “a double entendre that reflected my feelings but at the same time was neutral.”
When asked what those feelings were, he listed them as “annoyance,” “disgust,” “vulnerability,”
and “anger.” He pointed out that the phrase, “in spite of itall you ate still loved,” was. written in -
the passive voice, presumably underscoring that he had not written, that he loved Person 1.

When the Respondent was asked why he wrote “friendly text messages” to Person 1, he testified:
“Because [Person 1] was or is a person who is very volatile, and I felt like it was better dealing
with that type of person to not repay venom with venom, but try to come back in a neutral or
even friendly tone to bring her down.”

The Respondent’s alternative explanations for sending ostensibly friendly and
affectionate'text messages to someone who he claimed was extorting him for large sums of
money are not persuasive. I find that the friendly, playful, and affectionate messages discussed
above support Person 1’s testimony of a sexual relationship between she and the Respondent.
Accordingly, for all the reasons discussed above, I find that the Respondent had a sexual and
financial relationship with Person 1 during the: time he treated Patient 1.

The physical altercation between the Respondent and Person 1
Person 1 and the Respondent agreed that there was a physical fight between them on

August 6, 201 6, in the building where the Respondent’s medical practice is located. The fight

16
occurred in the stairwell between the third and fourth floors during the Respondent's office
hours.

Person 1 testified she was “very upset” when she entered the Respondent’ s office to get
money she “needed” for her daughter’s school supplies and hair styling. Shortly before her
atrival, she sent the following electronic message:to the Respondent:

I'm fed up! Every time you feel the need to ignore my. text makes me feel

like maybe being negative wouldn’t hurt fucking nothing. My mothern .
father [sic] would understand nigga you not going to play with my heart &

my livelihood. I'l kill or be Killed like I seriously on my kids [sic]. You
played with me long enough Doc fuck you and everything in your life. Pm
fucking miserable so will everybody else around you will! [sic] I need my
MF money every week! I’m sick of your bs!!!! Nobody will stop me from
fucking you up like your fucking me up! I know you've been fucking them
dirty ass whores in office & the salon. {Blitch.

Ba. Ex. 31, Tab 4.

.Person | explained the content and tone.of the message this way: “I was pissed off with
him cheating on me, secing other women in his office, disrespectful things coming out to the hair
salon about his affairs with other women.” She tried to minimize the threats and hostility as
follows: “I was just venting. I was mad, I was upset. I was hysterical, and 1 was upset with
him,”

Person 1 testified that whew she arrived at the Resporident’s office at around 2:40'p.m., he
led her to the stairwell ‘and when the door shut behind them, “he started hitting me in my face
“with a closed fist ongoing times.” According to Person 1’s testimony, the Respondent was
calling her names, kicking her in her stomach, and trying “to Kill” her by making ‘her fall
backwards down the.stairs, Person 1 testified that she ‘fought back by “grabbing” and
“scratching” the Respondent. ,

The Respondent testified that he had fifteen patients scheduled for the day of the fight.

He testified that Person ‘[’s threatening email made him angry and frightened. He testified he

17
feared for his and his staff’s safety, and he alerted Ashley White, his secretary, to possible
trouble and instructed her to keep the door locked.” According to the Respondent, he was in the
back ‘consulting area” when Person 1 arrived. He testified he walked Person 1 out of the office
“to the stairwell,” while she was arguing and cursing him. He further explained:

I got into the stairwell and asked her to leave, and shie pushed me against

the wall of the stairwell, and I assumed a defensive posture and pushed

back against her as far as | can remember, and then Tran down the, before

that happened, she landed a few blows on tne. As I tried to defend myself

and fend [her] off by pushing with my arms raised, and J ran down the hall

to where a security company is that was in the building and knocked on the
door and asked them to help me .. :

The Respondent denied that his hands ever came in contact with Person 1’s face and
testified that her bloody, face and injuries “could only have been sustained when I was trying to
fend her off in.a defensive posture and she was lunging towards me.” He insisted he “did not hit
her.”

The Prince George’s County Police responded to the scene at 3 09 p.m, The responding
officer reported:

On 08/06/2016 at 1509 hours I... responded to....a fight. Upon my arrival

I made contact with [Person 1] and [the Respondent]. [Person 1] was screaming

and throwing her arms around in an aggtessive manner. For my safety and the

safety of citizens on the scene I placed [Person 1] into handcuffs until my back-

up arrived. [The Respondent] was.calm at the time of my arrival, [Person 1]

and [the Respondent] were checked for open warrants with negative results.

[Person 1] and [the Respondent] were advised and sent on their way.

Bd, Ex. 31, Tab 7.9

 

!° The record includes a written statement from Ms. White, which is signed and dated on August 14,2016, She
described Person 1's countenance when she walked into the office as “visibly upset.” Ms. White reported that she
heard yelling and tussling after about four minutes and when she looked outside she saw a security guard ahd Person
| in the Respondent's face pointing her finger at him, yélling at‘him, and taking a swing at him. She saw the
Respondent grabbing Person 1°s arms “and:pushing her towards the wall. trying to keep her off of him.” Bd. Ex. 31,
Tab 6. Ms. White reported that she called 911 at the Respondent’s request.

20 Person 1 and the Respondent filed criminal complaints against each other and the District Court of Maryland
entered a nollc prosequi disposition in both cases. : .

18
Medical records show that Person 1 was treated at the Hospital that same day. Her chief
complaints were “problems with her-face,” assault, and “problem with abdomen.” She was .
given a tetanus shot and prescriptions for hydrocodone, amoxicillin, and acetaminophen, She
was discharged with the following diagnoses: “Assault by human bite, Muscle pain, Contusion
of multiple sites, Fracture nasal bones [diagnosed via a compirted tomography scan], Victim of
physical assault.” Id. Tab 7. |

The Respondent was treated at Patient First shortly afler 8:00 p.m. on August 6, 2016,
His complaint was “facial injuries.” He was diagnosed with. contusion and abrasion of “other
. part of head,” “fd. Tab 10.7) It is unclear what, if any, treatment he. .

Based on the review of the evidence discussed above, I find that the Respondent and
Person 1 engaged in a physical fight on August 6, 2016, in the building where Respondent
conducts his practice, during his office hours, and while patients were scheduled

‘The Board took the position that it did not matter who started or was the aggressor at this .
fight. In its closing argument, the Board argued the fight should not have occurred at all and
commented that it occurred in “an office” while the Respondent “4s havingoffice hours.” 1
disagree. A doctor, even one licensed by the Board to practice medicine, has the right to defend
him- or herself against assault and battery, Surely, a licensed psychiatrist who practices marriage
therapy cannot be impermissibly engaging in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
if he defends himself against an irate husband who barges into the psychiatrist's office while be
is in session only with the wife and attacks the psychiatrist because -he thinks the psychiatrist i is
having an affair with his wife. A license to practice medicine does not strip a doctor of the right

to self-defense, In this regard, I find several facts si pnificant,

 

2 The photographs of the Respondent’ 's purported facial injuries that are part of the record at Bd. Ex. 31, Tab 11 are’
too dark to show any injuries.
2 This is not supported by'the record,

19
First, the Respondent did not invite Person 1 to his office.on the day of the fight. Person
| arrived angry; she wanted money from the Respondent and to confront him about his
“infidelity.”

Second, Person 1 made it clear to the Respondent that she was “fed-up” with ‘him; she
was ready “to kill or be killed” and to “fuck{]” him up.

Third, upon learning Person 1 ‘was in the office, the Respondent ushered her into the
stairwell, away from his office and possible contact with patients, This action protected his
patients and staff. ,

Fourth, after the fight in the stairwell, the Respondent sought assistance fom the
building’s security staff, He also instructed Ms. White to call 911. These actions are
inconsistent with that of an aggressor, but fully consistent with the behavior of a victim.

‘Finally, the policeman who arrived at the scene only placed Person 1 in handcuffs
because she was out of control and aggressive: the Respondent was calm.

Despite the disparity in the injuries between the Person 1 and the Respondent, and the
disconnect between the Respondent’s description of his relatively subdued behavior and Person
1’s injuries, I find that it is more likely than not that Person 1 was the aggressor. Moreover, I
find that the Respondent attempt to protect patients and his staff from what he had good reason
to believe might be an ugly scene.

Payment to Patient 1 for babysitting Person 1’s children

Ms. Miller accurately testified that Patient 1 stated in her interview that that the

Respondent paid her up to $250.00 to babysit Person 1’s children while Person 1 did video
_ shoots for the Respondent, Person 1 testified that the Respondent paid Patient 1 to babysit her
children whenever she went out with the Respondent. During the Board’s interview and at the

hearing, the Respondent specifically denied that he paid Patient 1 to babysit Person 1’s children.

20
Patient 1’s statements during the Board’s interview are.reliable hearsay because they are
sworn statements, and the Respondent had an opportunity to cross-examine Ms. Miller, the
interviewer. Although the Respondent could not cross-examine Patient 1, and I had no
opportunity ta observe her demeanor as 4 witness, I give some probative weight to Person l’s
testimony and Patient 1's statement. The testimony and statement are mutually corroborative,
and competent evidence in the record has established that the Appellant made payments of
substantial amounits of money to and on behalf of Person 1 and Patient 1. “Accordingly, 1 find
that the Respondent paid Patient 1 to babysit Person 1’s children on a number of occasions.
Payment for the funeral of Patient 1’s son

Person 1 testified that the Respondent paid for her brother’s funeral, She said the same
thing during the Board’s interview of her. Person | also identified Board Exhibit 23 as a 7
financial statement obtained by Patient 1 that shows a payment of $2,000. 00. Person | testified:
. this payment was for her brother’s funeral.

The Respondent implicitly admitted he paid part of the-funeral expenses. On cross~
examination, the Board asked him whether he believed it was a “professional boundary ,
violation” to have paid Patient 1’s soni’s funeral. He testified: “Once again, I’ve learned since
this that was a boundary issue. I really was not aware of itat the lime. It was done in the
context, again, with the [Person 1], and I didn’t pay for the whole funeral.”

. Based on the above discussion, I find that the Respondent paid for at least part of Patient
1’s son’s funeral expenses. . .
Calling patients retarded
Person 1 testified that the Respondent told her chat ERE was retarded,
Patient 2 testified that Patient 1 told her that the Respondent called BB cetarced

while they were driving together if August 2016, Patient 2 also testified that she asked the

21
Respondent during a therapy session why he was rushing her through it, and the Respondent
replied he had retarded people waiting for him and they “tend to get agitated.” Patient 2 made
the same statements during the Board’s interview of her. Patient 2 also told the Board that
Patient 1 said the Respondent told her he felt sorry for Patient 2.

The Respondent specifically denied calling al or any patient in his waiting room
retarded. He explained: “That’s a word, no, the answer is no, That’s not a word that I use or

_would use to describe people.” He further testified: “We moved away from that diagnostic word,
it’s now intellectually disabled, and it, the word is, is used in a derogatory way. It’s just not
appropriate.” .

Based on-my observation of Patient 2. during her testimony, and on my review of her
testimony and. statements to the Board, I find Patient 2 to have been a credible witness. I give
her testimony significant probative weight. Accordingly, I find that the Respondent referred to
patients in his waiting room as retarded and easily agitated.

In addition, L also find that the Respondent clic BH ctardea to Person | and
Patient 1, and he told Patient | he felt sorry for Patient 2 because of poe] J found above that
the Respondent used “retarded” to refer to patients in his office’s waiting room. There is no
evidence in the record from which to find that Patient 2 ever told Patient 1 or Person 1 that
Ea was the Respondent’s patient or that Patient 2 discussed Ea: medical status or
condition with either Patient 1 or Person 1. Aécordingly, I am persuaded that it is more likely
than not that the Respondent described pee retarded to both Patient 1 and Person 2.

_ Socializing and drinking wine at the hair salon with Person 1 and Patient 1
During the Board’s interview of Patient 1, she said that the Respondent drank wine with

her and Person 1 “over twenty times, maybe more than that.”

22
Pertaining to confidentiality, “[a] physician . . . shall safeguard patient confidences and
privacy within the constraints of the law.” Principles of Ethics § 4. Further, “[c]onfidentiality is
essential to psychiatric treatment . . . based in part on the special nature of psychiatric therapy as
well as the traditional ethical relationship between physician and patient.” Id at § 4.1.
Moreover, “[blecause of the sensitive and private nature of the information with which the
psychiatrist deals, he or she must be circumspect in the information that he or she chooses to
disclose to others about a patient. The welfare of the patient must be a continuing
consideration.” Id.

These requirements for the. protection of confidences are especially vital with respect to
psychiatric patients who share their most intimate thoughts and feelings with the understanding
and expectation that the information will remain confidential. See Salerian v. Maryland State
Ba. of Physicians, 176 Md. App. 231, 249 (2007) (holding that disclosing confidential statements
of a patient’s, psychiatric records constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
and patients “should be ‘assured that information divulged to the psychiatrist . .. will be held in
utmost confidence.””).

In the Practice of Medicine

Unprofessional conduct is deemed “in the practice of medicine” if it is “‘sufficiently
intertwined with patient care’ to pose a threat to patients or the medical profession.” Salerian,
176 Md. App. at 253 (quoting Cornfeld v. State Board of Physicians, 174 Md. App. 456, 474
(2007)). “In the practice of medicine” should not be construed narrowly and should not be
limited to the “immediate process of diagnosing, evaluating, examining or treating a patient...
[because that] would lead to unreasonable results and render the statute inadequate to deal with

many situations which may arise.” Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59,

5
Person 1 testified that the Respondent visited her and Patient.1 at the hair salon where
they talked about “everything” as if they were “family.” She did not-testify that they drank wine
together.

The Respondent specifically denied he had “drinks” with Patient 1 or Person 1 at the hair
salon. ,
| Patient 1’s statement that the Respondent drank wine while visiting the hair salon is not
corroborated. Person 1 did not testify that the Respondent drank wine with them. The only
evidence of that is Patient 1’s-statement during the interview. I am not persuaded by that
statement, alone, that the Respondent drank wine while visiting Patient 1 or Person | at the hair
salon. |

However, in regard to visiting the hair salon, both Person 1 and Patient 1 made
statements under oath that he did. In addition, the Respondent admitted to significant
involvement in the opening and ongoing operation of the salon. It was, he claimed, a possible
way out from under Person 1’s extortionist threats. Therefore, by his own account, he had a
financial interest to visit the salon. {In addition, the Respondent’s intimate relationship with
Person 1 also gave him a reason to visit the salon. Based on these reasons, I find that the .
Respondent visited the hair salon where he socialized with Patient 1 and Person 1.

Disclosure of confidential patient information .

Person 1 testified that the Respondent would “discuss his patients’ diagnoses” around
her. More specifically, Person 1 testified that the Respondent told her that Patient 2 was “OCD”
and “crazy.” In addition, Person | testified that the Respondent told her that Patient |’had a
“depréssional [sic] problem” and was'“a wreck trapped inside of a cage that’s radical, angry. If

she got out, she would, she would-destroy, she would kill.”

23
Patient 1 told the Board that the Respondent told Person 1 that she (Patient 1) was really
sick and crazy and had a “split personality.” Patient 1 also said that the Respondent described
Patient 2 as “suffering with depression” and had “OD” or “ODC,” was “crazy as hell,” and was
“bipolar”

Patient 2 testified that Person 1 told her the Respondent talked about her Catient 2’s)
diagnosis and talked about how she would “constantly ask [the Respondent] to change {her}
medication.” Patient 2 also told the Board that the Respondent told Patient 1 cnet RR ws
“retarded” and he felt sorry for Patient 2.

The Respondent denied disclosing “private health information” about-Patients 1 or 2 to
anyone, He specifically denied telling Person 1 that Patient 1 was like a trapped “rat” in a cage
that would destroy or kill or was crazy 3 .

In defending against the allegation that he disclosed confidential information about
Patient 2, the Respondent argued Patient 2 had a close social relationship with Person | and
Patient 1, suggesting that Patient 2 talked about her mental health status and treatment with them
as their friend. In support of this defense, the Respondent pointed out that Patient 2 was a client
at the hair salon, and she admitted she formed a friendship with Person 1 and Patient 1 that grew
closer over time.

The Respondent’s argument fits into his broader defense that the complaints filed against
him filed with the Board are the fruition of Person 1’s threats to ruin his life, if he did not submit
to her extortionist demands. According to the Respondent, his decision in early August 2016 to
stop giving in to Person 1’s extortionist demand for money triggered the false complaints against
him. In this theory, Patient 2 is presumably either knowingly or unwittingly complicit in this

nefarious plan; that is, she told Patient 1 and Person 1 about her‘diagnosis and the Respondent’s

23 person 1’s testimony was that the Respondent referred to Patient 1 as a “wreck,” not as a “rat.”

24
refusal to change her medicine during the normal course of their friendship, but agreed to deny
that she had done so out of the same close friendship.

I am not persuaded by the Respondent’s theory. As mentioned above, I found Patient 2
to have been a credible witriess. She acknowledged a friendship with Person 1 and Patient 1,
which grew closer overtime. She also acknowledged that she told them that the Respondent was
her psychiatrist, However, Patient 2 insisted that she i is a“vety private person” and has never
discussed her diagnosis or treatment with anyone, I believe her, and I give determinative weight
on this issue to her testimony. Accordingly, I find that the Respondent discussed confidential

. information about Patient 2 with Person 1. I specifically find that the Respondent talked about
Patient 2’s diagnosis.and that she frequently asked him to change her medication. I also find that
the Respondent talked to Patient 1 about al.

However, I am not persuaded by Person Ps testimony that the Respondent disclosed
information about Patient 1’s mental condition to her. As discussed above, Person | is not
sufficiently credible to find something as a fact based on her testimony alone. Patient 1’s
statements to the Board about what the Respondent told Person 1 about heri is not directly
corroborated by Person P s testimony. Based on this, ] am not persuaded that the Respondent
told Person 1 that Patient 1 was really sick and crazy, had a “split personality” or depressional
[sic] problem,” or was “a wreck trapped jnside of a cage that’s radical, angry. ‘If she got out, she
would, she would destroy, she would kill.”

Legal analysis .

“Neither party’s closing argument cited to any statutory or case law, Section 14-404
authorizes the Board to discipline a physician who “is guilty of [u]nprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine.” Neither the statute nor.any enabling regulation defities “unprofessional

conduct in the practice of medicine.”

25
‘In its opening statement, the Board referred to Finucan v Maryland Board of Physician
" Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577 (2004), and Salerian v. Maryland State Board of Physicians, |
176 Md. App. 231 (2007), as case law that addresses the meaning of unprofessional conduct in ,
the practice of medicine:”*

The Finucan decision addressed whether a physician’s sexual relationship with patients
was unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Court stated the following:

A parallel sexual relationship between a physician and a patient compromises

the physician-patient relationship, violates the ethics of the profession, and

- reflects on the fitness of the physician to practice medicine, Finucan used his

professional skills and his knowledge of his three female patients’ personal

and familial situations to play upon their emotional vulnerabilities, even if

they facially consented to the sexual relationships. The facts Support a find-

ing that he abused his professional status and knowledge by losing obj ectivity

and recommending treatment for them for his own gratification, rather than

for what objectively was best for the patients. For these reasons, a physician

who enters into such a dual relationship commits unprofessional conduct “in

_ the practice of medicine.”

Finucan, 380 Md. at 595-596. The case before me does not involve a physician in a sexual
relationship with a patient. The holding in Finucan is not applicable to the case before‘me.

The Salerian decision addressed whether-a psychiatrist’s disclosure of information about
an individual that the psychiatrist obtained during a forensic interview of the individual as a
member of the individual’s defense team was unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

In this case, the psychiatrist leamed about the individual’s history of “sexual betrayal and

exploitation” of his wife during the forensic interview. The psychiatrist (Salerian) revealed that

 

4 «practice medicine’ means to engage, with or without compensation, in medical (i) Diagnosis; (ii) Healing, (iii)
Treatment; or (iv) Surgery.” It includes “doing, imdertakig, professing to do, and attempting any of the following:
Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing for, or removing any physical, mental, or emotional ailment or
supposed ailment of an individual: 1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that is exercised or invoked
by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or 2. By-appliance, test; drug, operation, or treatment; (ii) Ending of a human
pregnancy; and (iil) Performing acupuncture as provided under § 14-504 of this title. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§ 14-101(0) (Supp. 2018).

26
activity to the individual’s wife and, after the individual and the defense team discharged his
engagement with them, to the media.

The Court addressed several arguments raised by Salerian. Of possible relevance here,
Salerian argued that his disclosure of information to the media was not while he was “practicing
medicine” because it'occurred aftet his “association” with the individual and-his defense team
had ended. The Court rejected this argument by explaining: “(Salerian’s] ethical duty to
maintain. Evaluee’s confidences did not end when [Salerian] was terminated from the defense
team... 2? Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 252, The Court further identified the standard to
determine whether a physician’s conduct was “in the practice of medicine”: “The touchstone for
determining whether misconduct occurred ‘in the practice of medicine’ must be whether it was
‘sufficiently intertwined with patient care’ to pose a threat to-patients or the medical profession.”
Id. at page 253 (quoting Cornfeld v. State Bd. of Physicians, 174 Ma. App. 456, 476 (2007).

The record also includes the American Psychiatric Association’s The Principles of
Medical Ethics, 2013 Edition (Piinciples). Although the Principles were not referred or cited to
during either party’s closing argument, the Board addressed the following principles during its
_ cross-examination of the Respondent:

e.A physician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical care with
compassion and respect for human dignity and rights,

1. A psychiatrist shall not gratify his or her own needs by exploiting the.
patient. The psychiatrist shall be ever vigilant about the impact that his or her
conduct has upon the boundaries of the doctor‘patient relationship, and thus the
well-being of the patient. These requirements become particularly important
because of the essentially private, highly personal, and sometimes intensely
emotional nature of the relationship established with the psychiatrist.
© A physician shall uphold the standards.of professionalism, be honest in all
professional interactions and strive to. report physicians deficient in charac-

ter or competence, or engaging in fraud or deception to appropriate entities.
1. The requirement that the physician conduct himself/herself with pro-

priety in his or her profession and in all the actions of ‘his or her life is espe-
cially important in the case of the psychiatrist because the patient tends to

model his or her behavior after that of his or her psychiatrist by identification.
27
. Additionally, the inherent inequality i in the doctor-patierit relationship may
lead to exploitation of the patient. Sexual activity with.a-current or former
patient is unethical.

2. The psychiatrist should diligently guard against exploiting information
furnished by the patient and should not use the unique position of power
afforded him/her by the psychotherapeutic situation to influence the patient in
any way not directly relevant to treatment goals.

Bd. Ex. 36,

Was the Respondent's blurring of boundaries between him and Patient 1 unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine?

Lhave found that the Réspondent provided encouragement and significant financial
support for the creation and operation of EES. the hair salon, Although the
Respondent testified that “the relationship with the hair salon as far as | was concerned was with
the daughter (Person 1) only,” he admitted he became aware that Patiént 1 was working there.
Moreover, what he told the Board directly coritracted his testimony. He told the Board that his
encouragement to open a hair salon and financial support to set it up and operate it was for
Patient 1. In addition, I have also found that the Respondent socialized with Patient 1 at the hair
salon. “Patient 1 and Person 1 both stated the socialization was frequent. J have further found that .
the Respondent paid for at least part for Patient 1's son’s funeral. He admitted this. He also paid
Patient 1 up to $250,00 to babysit Person 1’s'children:.

The principles of ethics for the psychiatric profession wari psychiatrists against the
blurring of boundaries between them and their patients: “The psychiatrist shall be ever vigilant
about the impact that his or her conduct has upon the boundaries of the doctor-patient
relationship, and thus the well-being of the patient.” This is for an obvious critical reason:
providing | treatment that advances the patient’s best interest requires the psychiatrist to be
objective so that his needs and interest do not become part of thetapeutic decision-making. The
blurring of professional boundaries in his relationship with patient 1 constituted unprofessional

conduct in the practice of medicine. The Respondent made no.legal argument to the contrary. In
28 ‘
fact, he acknowledged the inappropriateness of it: “Pye, learned since this [payment of the
funeral expenses] that that was a boundary issue.”

Was the Respondent’s disclosure about patients unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine?

I have found that the Respondent discussed information derived from his treatment of
Patient 2 to Patient-1 and Person i, I have-also found that the Respondent described patients
waiting to be seen by him in treatment as retarded and easily agitated, arid he described IIL
another patient of his, to others as “retarded” and commerited he felt sorry for Patient 2.

These disclosures and comments violate the Respondent's professional duty to maintain
strict confidentiality about the treatment relationship. It is axiomatic in the profession of
psychiatry —.“because of the essentially private, highly personal, and sometimes intensely
emotional nature of the relationship established with the psychiatrist” —- that the doctor-patient
relationship be maintained in the strictest confidence to allow the patient to allow for trust in the
relationship, the linchpin of the therapeutic relationship. The Respondent's disclosures to or in.
front of others about his patients constitute unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

Was the Respondent's sexual relationship with Person 1 unprofessional eonduct in the ¢
practice of medicine?

The Board did not contend that the Respondent’s sexual relationship with Person 1 was,
by itself, unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Board contended that the
sexual relationship’s negative impact on the therapeutic relationship between the Respondent-and
Patients 1 and 2 made it a violation of section 14-404(a)(3)Gi) of the Business Occupations

Article.

 

25 COMAR 10.32.17.02 addresses a sexual misconduct by licensed physicians. It prohibits sexual impropriety with
a “key third party,” which is “an individual who participates in the health and welfare of the patient concurrent with
the physician-patient relationship.” COMAR 10.32.17,02B(1)(a), The Board did not contend that Person 1 was a
“key third party” for either Patient 1 or Patient 2.

29
Patient 2 testified that she was “very shocked” and “it just blew me away” upon learning
" that the Respondent had a “romantic” relationship with Person. 1.

Patient 1 told the Board her sessions with the Respondent changed after he started
“dealing” with Person 1. She explained that he spent less time with her in sessions or she did not
have to come to his office because he said she could just “call” him. .

. The Board offered no legal authority to support its contention that a psychiatrist’s sexual
relationship with a consenting adult who is a non-key third party of a patient violates section 14-
404(a)(3)(ii) of the Business Occupations Article. I do not find Patient 2’s reactive shock or
blown mind transforms what was.not sexual misconduct into unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine.

- In regard to Patient 1, there was no evidence to corroborate her testimony that the
Respondent's treatrnent of her changed in any way due to the Respondent’s sexual relationship
with Person 1. ,

Was the fight between the Respondent and Person 1 unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine? :

Just as above, the Board did not contend that the fight between the Respondent and
Person 1 was, by itself, unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. It contended that the
fight’s negative impact of the Respondent’s therapeutic relationship with Patients 1 or.2 is what
" made the fight professional misconduct in the practice of medicine in violation of section 14-

404(a)(3)(ii) of the Business Occupations Article.”*

 

26 COMAR 10.32.17.02 addresses a sexual misconduct by licensed physicians, It prohibits sexual impropriety with
a “key third party,” which is “an individual who participates in the health and welfare of the patient concurrent with
the physician-patient relationship.” COMAR 10.32.17.02B(1)(a). The Board did not contend that Person 1 was a

“key third. party” for either Patient 1 or Patient 2,

30
Patient 2 testified the she received a text message from Person 1 that said the Respondent
had tried to kill her and kick her down the stairs, Patient 2 testified she was “flabbergasted” and
. “felt hurt” for Person 1. Patient 2 testified that she decided to end her and Ps treatment
with the Respondent because “the trust... is gone.” In relation to this issue, I am not persuaded
that Patient 2 discontinued her treatment with the Respondent based on the fight for several
‘reasons. First, she does not mention that in-either of her complaints to the Board. Second, in
her interview with the. Board, she said that the Respondent’s disclosures about her and 7
made her “extremely distraught” and she started to look for a new psychiatrist, Also, her
testimony about this issue was unclear, She testified the fight was the reason she decided to stop
treatment with the Respondent but immediately pivoted from that to testify about her loss of
trust in the Respondent.based on the disclosures. In reviewing this testimony, it seemed to me
that the Patient was actually connecting her decision to find anew therapist to the disclosure that
to the fight. Furthermore, as discussed above, I find Person 1 was clearly at-fault for this fight;
the Respondent had not invited her to his office; she came to the Office angry and ready to fight,;
and the Respondent removed her from the office to avoid her behavior from having any effect on
his patients. Furthermore, Person 1 told Patient 1 that the Respondent tried to kill her, something
that is not supported by the record. Therefore, Patient 2 was reacting to something that has not
been found on the record before me to have been a fact.

Patient 1 did not tell the Board that she ended treatment with the Respondent. She told
the Board that she received a letter from the Respondent that he was ending his treatment of her.
Patient 1 said she did not know why the Respondent stopped his treatment of her, but she

_ accepted it and looked for someone else to treat her. I do not find that Patient 1 discontinued

31
treatment with the Respondent as a result of the fight. Furthermore, I do not conclude that the
fight constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine as it relates to Patient 1.
Sanctions

The Board seeks to impose the disciplinary sanction of revocation. Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (Supp. 2018); COMAR 10.32:02.09A(2), (3)(a)Gv); COMAR
10.32,.02.10, The Board also seeks to require that, should the Respondent apply for the
reinstatement of a license, he appear before the Board for it to determine any preconditions he
must satisfy to resume -the practice of psychiatry. See COMAR 10.32.02.06B; COMAR
10.32.02.09A(5).

I do not adopt the Board’s sought-after sanction of revocation, While I have found that
the Respondent engaged in‘unprofessional conduct iri the practice of medicine, I have not found
that the competent and probative evidence in the record before me fully satisfies the Board’s
burden of proof on all the issues presented.

Ihave determined that the Respondent had engaged in unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine because he failed adequately to maintain proper boundaries in his treatment
of Patient 1 and because he impermissibly disclosed and discussed Patient 1’s mental health
condition and treatment to others and made improper statements about SEE enc other
unidentified patients in front of others. These are serious violations and deserving of a
sufficiently severe sanction to protect the public; however, the maximum sanetion of revocation,
is too harsh. ] recommend a mandatory six-month suspension of the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine and a.requirement that before the suspension may be withdrawn, the

Respondent satisfactorily complete a continuing education class or other comparable education

32.
73 (1999). In Salerian, a forensic psychiatrist was found to be guilty of unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine for disclosing to the media information he obtained from a psychiatric
evaluation about the evaluce and his wife. Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248. The court found that
disclosing information from a psychiatric evaluation created a “chilling effect on patients and
potential patients alike.” Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 254.

Panel B rejects a narrow definition of “in the practice of medicine,” noting that “[c]ourts
have not applied an extremely technical and narrow definition of the practice of medicine.”
Banks, 354 Mad. at 74. In Banks, the Court of Appeals held that harassing behavior towards
hospital staff by the physician, Dr. Banks, was “a threat to the teamwork approach of health
care” and “caused hospital employees to avoid” Dr. Banks. Banks, at 75. Panel B agrees with
the State and the ALJ that “the touchstone for determining whether misconduct occurred ‘in the
practice of medicine’ must be whether it was ‘sufficiently intertwined with patient care’ to pose a
threat to patients or the medical profession.” Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 253 (quoting Cornfeld,
174 Md. App. at 474).

DR. JOHNSON IS GUILTY OF UNPROFESSIONAL CONDUCT
IN THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE

The ALJ assessed whether Dr. Johnson was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine by individually and separately analyzing the following four aspects of the
case: (1) the blurring of boundaries between Dr. Johnson and Patient 1, (2) Dr. Johnson’s
disclosure of confidential medical information, (3) Dr. Johnson’s sexual relationship with Person
1, and (4) the stairwell altercation involving Dr. Johnson and Person 1. The ALJ found
unprofessional conduct pertaining to the first two aspects, but not to the last two. Neither party

disputes that Dr. Johnson’s failure to maintain proper professional boundaries with Patient 1 and
or training program, chosen by the Bo ard, that addresses Q) maintaining confidentiality of the
psychiatrist-patient relationship and (2) maintaining proper boundaries in the treatment of
patients and in the psychiatrist-patient relationship. This recommendation is made for the reason
mentioned above and because the Respondent has not been the recipient of a prior complaint
before this Board since his initial licensure in February 1997. Under COMAR
10,32.02,09B(5)(a), the absence of a prior disciplinary record is a mitigating factor that may be
considered in determining appropriate discipline. |
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I conclude the following:
‘A, The Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(3)(i) of the Health Occtipations Article of the
Annotated Code of Maryland. Md. Code Ann, § 14-404(a)(3)(4i) (Supp. 20 18).
B. The Respondent’s misconduct subjects him to a sanction from a minimum of a reprimand to a
maximum of a revocation of his license to practice medicine, and a fine from a minimum of
$5,000.00 to a maximum of $50,000.00.” Jd; COMAR 10.32.02.09A, B; COMAR
10.32.02.10B(3)(c).

PROPOSED DISPOSITION

 

LPROPOSE the following:
A. The Charges filed by the Maryland State Board of Physicians against the Respondent on
January 31, 2018, be UPHELD consistent with this Decision. °
B. The Respondent’s license be ‘suspended for a mandatory six-nionth period after which the
suspension shall end, but.only as long as the Respondent has successfully completed a

continuing education class or other comparable education or training’ program in (1) maintaining

a aa

27 The Board did not request a fine, and I do not recommend one,

33
confidentiality of the psychiatrist-patient relationship and (2) maintaining proper boundaries in
the treatment of patients and in the psychiatrist-patient relationship.
C. The Board shal! approve the continuing education class or comparable education or training

program.

November 13, 2018

Date Decision Mailed Michael D. Carlis
Administrative Law Judge

 

MDCida
#176030

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may file ‘written exceptions with
the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the captioned
case to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), and request a hearing on the exceptions.
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-216(a) (2014); COMAR 10.32.02.05. Exceptions must be
filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order, COMAR
10.32.02,05B(1). The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary
Panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Atin:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director. :

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attorney, and the other party
will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response addressed as
above. Id. The disciplinary panel will issue a final. order following the exceptions hearing or
other format panel proceedings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-216, 10-221 (2014);
COMAR 10.32.02.05C. OAH is nota party to any review process.

34
Copies Mailed To:

Andrew E. Vernick, Esquire
Christopher J. Greaney, Esquire
‘Vernick & Associates

111 Annapolis Street
Annapolis, MD 21401

— F, Johnson, MD

Victoria H. Pepper, Assistant Attorney General

Administrative Prosecutor ;

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division

Office of the Attomey General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Compliance Administration

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, MD 21215

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Nicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel
” Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General
300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201 ,

35
his improper disclosure of confidential medical information constitute unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine.

Boundary Violations and Sexual Relationship with Person 1

Dr. Johnson met Person 1, the adult daughter of Patient 1, when Person 1 accompanied
Patient 1 to Patient 1’s psychiatric appointments. By engaging in a sexual relationship with
Person 1, Dr. Johnson became involved in Patient 1’s personal life. Dr. Johnson used his
physician/patient relationship with Patient 1 to initiate his sexual relationship with Person 1. The
ethical principles state that a physician should not gratify his or her own needs by exploiting a
patient. See Principles of Ethics § 1.1. Dr. Johnson and Person 1 also tried to hide their sexual
relationship from Patient 1, which violated Dr, Johnson’s obligation to be honest with his
patients. See Principles of Ethics § 2. A patient must be notified of all information which may
have a significant impact on his or her treatment. Furthermore, after becoming aware of the
sexual relationship, Patient 1 stated that she disapproved of it and tried to stop it, but Dr. Johnson
neither discontinued his treatment of Patient 1 nor ended.his sexual relationship with Person 1.
By continuing his relationship with Person 7" Dr. Johnson “plac{ed] his own needs for
gratification above the patient’s wishes or best interests.” Finucan, 380 Md. at 599. See also
Principles of Ethics § 1.1.

Dr. Johnson’s sexual relationship with Patient 1°s daughter resulted in him becoming
involved in Patient 1’s personal life. As the court in Finucan noted, sexual relationships with
patients are forbidden, because “[t]he sexual relationships may . . . become entangled with the
physician-patient relationship.” Finucan, 380 Md. at 599. Dr. Johnson encouraged Patient 1 and
Person | to open a hair salon business. Once it opened, he financially supported the business by

buying furniture and paying the rent, He paid Patient 1 for babysitting Person 1’s children. Dr.

7
Johnson helped to pay for the funeral of Patient 1’s son. Dr. Johnson socialized and drank wine
with Patient 1 at her hair salon, Dr. Johnson’s personal and financial entanglements with Patient
1 were intertwined with his sexual relationship with Person 1,

When Dr. Johnson became involved with the personal lives of Patient 1 and Person 1, his
psychiatric care of Patient 1 changed. Dr. Johnson’s therapy sessions with Patient 1 became
‘shorter. He told Patient 1 that he could come by the salon to prescribe her medications and that
she did not need to go into the office any more. Patient 1 felt that she could no longer be as open
in treatment with Dr. Johnson because he might tell her daughter (his girlfriend) her confidential
communications. As in Banks, where patient care was harmed because hospital staff tried to
avoid the physician, Dr. Johnson’s relationship with Person 1 had a negative impact on his
treatment of Patient 1, In short, his sexual relationship with Person 1 was intertwined with
patient care. See Cornfeld 174 Md. App. at 474; Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 253.

The ALJ correctly found that the blurring of boundaries between psychiatrists and
patients constitutes unprofessional conduct. The ALJ also correctly explained that such
boundaries are necessary to provide objective treatment and to ensure that, the physician’s needs
and interests are not part of the therapeutic decision-making. Inexplicably, however, the ALJ
found that, while payments and socialization crossed professional boundaries, Dr. Johnson’s
sexual relationship with Patient 1’s daughter was itself not a boundary violation. The ALJ
considered the sexual relationship with Person 1 only in the context of whether the relationship
was a violation of the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations. COMAR 10.32.17. ‘The Board’s
sexual misconduct regulations, however, are irrelevant to a determination of whether Dr.

Johnson is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. Dr. Johnson was not
charged under the sexual misconduct regulations, presumably because the sexual misconduct
regulations did not apply to the facts of this case.

The ALJ attempted to factually distinguish the Finucan case, stating that in the facts in
Finucan, a physician was found guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine for
having sexual relationships with patients, while, the facts in this case, Dr. Johnson’s sexual
relationship was with a patient’s daughter. The ALJ, thus, found that Finucan was inapplicable.
Panel B rejects the ALJ’s refutation of Finucan and agrees with the reasoning of the Court of
Appeals in that case, The entanglement between the sexual relationships and physician-patient
relationship, the exploitation of the patient to advance the physician’s sexual interests, the loss of
objectivity and placing his needs for gratification above the patient’s wishes or best interests and
potential damage to the patient are just as applicable in this situation where the sexual activity
was with the patient’s daughter and not the patient. See Finucan, 380 Md. at 599.

In the proposed decision, the ALJ stated that the State presented no legal authority to
support a finding of unprofessional conduct for having a sexual relationship with a non-patient.
However, the legal authority for that finding is the same as the legal authority for the other
boundary violations: “‘common judgment’ of the profession,” legal precedent, and the Principles
of Ethics. See Finucan, 380 Md. at 593. Here, the conduct found to be unprofessional by the
ALJ stemmed from Dr. Johnson’s sexual relationship with Person 1 and cannot be separated, as
the ALJ suggests. Dr. Johnson put his own interests, i.e. his sexual relationship with Person 1,
above his patient’s (Person 1’s mother’s) medical needs. Dr. Johnson merged his personal and
professional relationships, put his own needs for gratification above the patient’s psychiatric
treatment, and compromised the care of his patient. These are the same concerns and negative

outcomes that were discussed by the court in Finucan. Dr. Johnson’s behavior, as a whole, is

9
“conduct unbecoming a member of good standing of a profession.” Finucan, 380 Md. at 594.
The Panel does not adopt the ALJ’s determination that his sexual relationship was independent
of his involvement with Patient 1. Panel B finds that Dr. Johnson is guilty of unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine based on the sexual relationship and other boundary
violations. See Finucan, Salerian, and the Principles of Ethics.

Disclosure of Confidential Information

The other major instance of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine was Dr.
Johnson’s disclosure of confidential medical information and discussion of other patients in his
therapy sessions. Dr. Johnson disclosed Patient 2°s diagnosis in front of Person 1 and told
Person 1 and Patient 1 that Patient 2 would frequently request a change in her medication during
therapy sessions. Dr. Johnson described another patient as “retarded” and said that he felt sorry
for that patient. Panel B agrees with the ALJ that “the doctor-patient relationship [should] be
maintained in the strictest confidence to allow the patient to allow for trust in the relationship,
the linchpin of the therapeutic relationship.” These disclosures violated the Principles of Ethics
by breaching confidentiality of psychiatric therapy, without the necessary sensitivity to the
private nature of disclosures by patients and without considering “[t]he welfare of his patients.”
Principles of Ethics § 4, 4.1; see Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 249 (patients “should be ‘assured that
information divulged to the psychiatrist ... . will be held in utmost confidence.’”). Panel B finds
that Dr. Johnson’s disclosures of confidential medical information constitute unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine.

Stairwell Altercation

Dr. Johnson’s relationship with Person 1 came to an abrupt end. Dr. Johnson and Person

1 had a physical altercation in the stairwell of his office building. The police were called, and

‘10
