IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

DIAA Y. MIKHAIL, M.D., * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent. * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D51883 * Case Numbers: 2221-0023
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

PROCEDURAL HISTORY

Diaa Y. Mikhail, M.D., is a board-certified family medicine physician, originally licensed
to practice medicine in Maryland in 1997, On February 16, 2021, Disciplinary Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Dr. Mikhail with unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, willfully making or filing a false report or record in the
practice of medicine, and with violating a provision of the Maryland Medical Practice Act, a rule
or regulation adopted by the Board or any State or federal law pertaining to the practice of
medicine. See Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(i), (11), (43). The charges alleged
that Dr. Mikhail treated a family member for years, including prescribing numerous medications
including Controlled Dangerous Substances (CDS), and wrote prescriptions in one family
member’s name for her to fill the prescription and deliver it to another family member overseas.

On September 27 and 28, 2021, an Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) held an
evidentiary hearing at the Office of Administrative Hearings. At the hearing, the State
introduced twenty-one exhibits that were accepted into evidence and one that was rejected. The
State presented testimony from the Board’s compliance analyst and a physician who was
qualified as an expert in internal medicine, gastroenterology, and professional ethics. Dr.

Mikhail introduced six exhibits, testified on his own behalf, and presented testimony from a

1
physician who was qualified as an expert in infectious disease, internal medicine, and primary
care medicine. On January 4, 2022, the ALJ issued a proposed decision concluding that, as a
matter of law, that Dr. Mikhail committed unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi); willfully made or filed a false report or record in the practice of
medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11); and violated provisions of the Maryland Medical
Practice Act, a rule or regulation adopted by the Board or any State or federal law pertaining to
the practice of medicine. Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43). As a sanction, the ALJ recommended a
stayed suspension, conditioned on Dr. Mikhail’s completion of courses in medical record
keeping and medical ethics within six months, a two-year probationary period, and payment of a
$10,000 fine.

Dr. Mikhail filed exceptions to the sanction recommended in the ALJ’s proposed
decision. Dr. Mikhail did not take exception to the ALJ’s findings of fact or conclusions of law.
On June 8, 2022, both parties appeared before Disciplinary Panel A of the Board for an
exceptions hearing,

FINDINGS OF FACT

The Panel adopts the Stipulation of Facts JJ 1-10 and the ALJ’s undisputed Proposed
Findings of Fact Jf 1-40 and incorporates them by reference into the body of this document as if
set forth in full. See attached ALJ Proposed Decision, Exhibit 1. The Panel also adopts the
ALJ’s discussion section in full (pages 14-24). Ex. 1. The findings of fact were proven by the

preponderance of the evidence.

 
his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant the petition to terminate the
probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Dr. Mikhail has complied with all
probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending complaints relating to the charges;
and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is
further -

ORDERED that the effective date of the Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee signs
the Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Mikhail is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Mikhail allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed. by this Order, Dr. Mikhail shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the
disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be
before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is
no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Mikhail shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Dr. Mikhail has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr. Mikhail, place him on probation with appropriate terms

and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke his license to

1}
practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the
sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on Dr. Mikhail; and it is further
ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b\(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

e - e
07b4 [2022 Signature On File
‘Date 4 Christine A. Farfelly, Reoohtive Direct)
Maryland State Board of Physicians
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408(a), Dr. Mikhail has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within 30 days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Dr. Mikhail files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be

served with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:

David S. Finkler

Assistant Attorney General

Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

12
Exhibit 1
IN THE MATTER OF: * BEFORE EMILY DANEKER,

DIAA Y. MIKHAIL, M.D., - * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
LICENSE No.: D51883, * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE OF
RESPONDENT * ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

OAH CASE NO.: MDH-MBP2-71-21-13038!

* * * & cd * * * . * * * * *

PROPOSED DECISION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
STIPULATIONS OF FACT
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
, DISCUSSION
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION
RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

 

On February 16, 2021, the Maryland Board of Physicians (Board) Disciplinary Panel B
caused charges to be issued against Diaa Y. Mikhail, M.D., (Respondent) for alleged violations
of the State law governing the practice of medicine. Specifically, the Respondent is charged
_ under section 14-404 of the Health Occupations Article with:

. unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

. willfully making or filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine; and

| The file originally was designated as case number MOH-MBP2-72-21-13038 (an emergency disciplinary
suspension designation), though some documents contained the case designation listed above (a non-emergent
disciplinary designation); the parties confirmed that the emergency suspension designation was incorrect.
. violating any provision of the Act (aside from the licensure process described under
subtitle 3A), any rule or regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law
pertaining to the practice of medicine. ;

Md. Code Ann, Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(3), (11), (43) (2021);? Code of Maryland Regulations
(COMAR) 10.32.02.03E(3)(d); see also COMAR 10.32.02.16. The disciplinary panel referred
the matter to the Office of the Attorney General for prosecution, COMAR 10.32.02:03E(5), (7);
see also COMAR 10.32.02.02B(3). Attempts at resolution through the Disciplinary Committee
for Case Resolution process were unsuccessful, and the matter was referred to the Office of
Administrative Hearings (OAH) fora hearing and to issue proposed findings of fact, proposed
conclusions of law, and a proposed disposition. COMAR 10.32.02.E(9)(b); COMAR
10.32.02.04B(1).

Theld an in-person hearing on September 27 and 28, 2021,3 at the OAH. Health Occ. §
14-405(a); COMAR 10.32.02.04. David J. McManus, Esquire, represented the Respondent,
Robert Gilbert, Assistant Attorney General, was assigned by the Office of the Attorney General .
to prosecute the charges. COMAR 10.32.02.03E(5), F(2), (3).

Procedure is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative Procedure

‘Act, the Rules for Hearings Before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of Procedure of the
OAH. Mad. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2021); COMAR 10,32.02;
COMAR 28.02. ot.

2 Although the charges are based on cohduct extending back for a period of years and were filed prior to the
publication of the 2021 replacement volume of the Health Occupations Article, section 14-404, subparagraphs (@@)
and (a)(11) have been in effect since at least 2003 and subparagraph (a)(43) has been in effect since July 2019, all
without substantive change. Thus, for convenience, all subsequent references to the Health Occupations Article are
to the 2021 replacement volume, unless otherwise indicated,

3 The record was held open until October 8, 2021 for the parties to submit written closing arguments.

2
ISSUES

1. Did the Respondent, violate subsections 14-404(a)(3), (11), or (43) of the Health

Occupations Article?

2: If the Respondent violated one or more of those provisions, what is the

appropriate sanction?

 

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
Testimony
The administrative prosecutor presented the following witnesses in support of the

charges: Alexandra Fota, a compliance analyst with the Board, /

M.D., who was accepted as an expert in internal medicine, gastroenterology, and professional
ethics.
The Respondent testified in his own behalf, and presented testimony from P|

M.D., who was accepted as an expert in infectious disease, intemal medicine, and primary care

medicine,
Exhibits

On behalf of the State, the administrative prosecutor offered the following exhibits,
which were admitted into evidence:
State Ex. 1 - Physician Profile Portal licensing information, printed June 1, 2021
State Ex. 3 Subpoena issued by the Board to the Respondent, August 7,2020 .
StateEx.4 - Letter from counsel for Respondent to the Board, August 19, 2020
State Ex.4A- Records enclosed with August 19, 2020 letter (Bates pages 00011 to 41)
StateEx.5 - Letter from the Board to the Respondent, October 6, 2020

State Ex.6 - Transcript of Board’s Examination Under Oath of Respondent, October 27,
2020 :
State Ex. 7A -

State Ex. 7B -

State Ex. 7C -

State Ex. 7D -
State Ex. 7E -
State Ex. 7F -
State Ex, 7G~-

State Ex. 7H-

State Ex. 71 - ,

State Ex, 8. -
State Ex.9 -

State Ex. 10 -
State Ex. 11 -
State Ex. 12 -

State Ex. 13 -

Cover letter and subpoena issued by the Board to Giant Pharmacy #348,
October 27, 2020

Cover letter and subpoena issued by the Board to Safeway Pharmacy #1553,
October 27, 2020 :

/ Subpoena issued by the Board to Giant Pharmacy #348, November 2, 2020

Cover letter from Albertsons Companies (Safeway) to the Board, with enclosed
documents, November 4, 2020

Documents from Giant Pharmacy #348, November 2, 2020 Bates pages 00085
to 94)

Cover letter and subpoena issued by the e Board to a Giant ,

_ Pharmacy Operations, November 19, 2020

Cover letter and subpoena issued by the Board to ma. Giant

Pharmacy Operations, December 4, 2020

Documents from FP Giant Pharmacy Operations, December 21,
2020 (Bates pages 00099 to 141)

Subpoena issued by the Board to Safeway Pharmacy #1553, January 6, 2021;
Emails between the Board and EN, Pharmacy Professional
Services Department, Albertsons Companies, January 6 to 18, 2021;
Documents from Safeway Pharmacy #1553 (Bates pages 000152 to 242)

Boatd’s Report of Investigation, January 27, 2021, exclusive of the Prior

. Board History -

American Medical Association (AMA) Code of Medical Ethics, Opinion No.
8.19, May 2012 (printed from the website on September 11, 2019)

AMA Code of Medical Ethics, Opinion No. 1.2.1, undated

Curriculum vitae for Dr. ZZ undated -

Dr. i $ written opinion, July 6, 2021

Inre Ralph B. Epstein, M.D., Board Case Number 2218-0269, Final Decision ;

and Order, June 3, 2020, with the attached underlying Proposed Decision
issued by the Office of Administrative Hearings, January 9, 2020

4 As Ms. Fota explained in her testimony, this report was erroneously dated with the year 2020.

4
The State also offered a June 20, 2012 letter, identified as its exhibit number two, into
evidence. Although the Respondent’s objection to that exhibit was sustained, a copy of the
exhibit is maintained with the file. COMAR 28.02.01.22C. A copy of the Charges was included
as the State’s exhibit 14 for reference purposes only, The State also used a list of as ::
the Respondent prescribed for during its cross-examination of Dr. , | The list was
identified as the State? s exhibit fifteen; although it was not moved into evidence, a copy is
retained with the administrative record, Id. .

The Respondent offered the following exhibits, which were admitted-into evidence:
Resp. Ex.1 - Curriculum vitae for Dr undated.

Resp. Ex.2 - Written opinion of Dr. mm undated

Resp. Ex.3 - Email from the American Board of Family Medicine (ABFM) to the
Respondent, re: Revised Guidelines for Professionalism, Licensure, and
Personal Conduct (approved April 26, 2021), email dated May 26, 2021 |

Resp. Ex.4 - ABFM Guidelines for Professionalism, Licensure, and Personal Conduct,
Version 2018-7, effective April 30, 2018

Resp, Ex.5 - ABFM Guidelines for Professionalism, Licensure, and Personal Conduct,
Version 2021-1, effective April 26, 2021

Resp.Ex.6 - Jnre Peter G. Uggowitzer, M.D., Board Case Number 2219-0200B, Consent
Order, June 19, 2020

The parties jointly offered the following exhibits, which were admitted into evidence:

Jt. Ex. 1 - Excerpt from ‘Board’s Winter 2012 Newsletter, Taking Care of Family
Members
Jt. Ex. 2 - Dr | | s precedent reference list, undated
STIPULATIONS OF FACT

The parties stipulated to the following facts:*

1. The Board originally issued a Maryland medical license to Dr. Mikhail on April
18, 1997,6 under License Number DSI 883. Dr. Mikhail has maintained continuous licensure in.
Maryland since that time. Dr. Mikhail’s license is active through September 30, 2023.

°2. Dr. Mikhail is board-certified in family medicine and practices at a medical office |

at 1005 North Point Road, Suite 708, Baltimore, Maryland 21224.

3. In 2020, the Board initiated an investigation of Dr. Mikhail.

4, - As part of its investigation, the Board, through a subpoena duces tecum

(document subpoena) to Dr. Mikhail dated August 7, 2020,” directed Dr. Mikhail to produce the

medical records HC

5. Dr. Mikhail responded through a letter from his counsel, David J. McManis, Jr.,'

dated August 19, 2020. In this letter, Dr. Milehal disclosed that A ws III
Dr. Mikhail also provided certain medical records with respect to ma
6. By letter dated October 6, 2020, the Board notified Dr. Mikhail that it had
initiated an investigation of him under Case Number 2221-0023B. The letter contained a
subpoena ad testificanchum for him to participate in a teleconference interview with the Board.
7, On October 27, 2020, Board staff conducted an interview under oath of Dr.
” Milchail, Dr. Mikhail was represented by Mr, McManus during the interview. The interview

was subsequently transcribed.

3 A copy of the written J oint Stipulations is included in the administrative record. I have made non- -substantive
alterations to the stipulated facts where needed for format, clarity, and readability,
§ At that time, the Board was called the Maryland State Board of Physician Quality Assurance. .
7 The Joint Stipulation specifies ‘that this occurred on August 7, 2021; the subpoena is in evidence and reflects a date
of Angust 7, 2020, which is consistent with the remainder of the timeline, See State Ex. 3.

will at times be referred.to as
8. The Board then issued a series of document subpoenas to area pharmacies for any

prescriptions Dr, Mikhail wrote oo The subpoenas, and the responses received,

ate as follows:

Letter and document subpoena to Giant, October 27, 2020
Letter and document subpoena to Safeway, October 27, 2020
Document subpoena to Giant, November 2, 2020.

Response from Albertsons (Safeway), November 4, 2020
Response from Giant, November 10, 2020

Letter and document subpoena to Giant, November 19, 2020
Letter and document subpoena to Giant, December 4, 2020
Response from Giant, December 21, 2020

Response from Safeway, January 7, 2021

ropa he Be of

9. On January 27, 2021, the assigned investigator, Alexandra Fota, filed a Report of
” Investigation in this matter. ,

10. On February 13, 2021, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board issued Charges Under
the Maryland Medical Practice Act against the Respondent, under Case Number 2221-00238,
alleging violations of Health Occupations Article subparagraphs 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (committing of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine), 14-404(a)(11) (willfully making or filing a
false report or record in the practice of medicine, and 14-404(a)(43) (except for the licensure
process described under Subtitle 3A of this title, violating any provision of this title, any rule or

regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the practice of

medicine).
ANALYSIS

Treatment of Family Member 1

The ALJ found and the Panel upholds a finding that Dr. Mikhail is guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi),
for treatment of members of his family. Unprofessional conduct is “conduct which breaches the
rules or ethical code of a profession or conduct which is unbecoming a member in good standing
of a profession.” Finucan v. Board of Physicians, 380 Md. 577, 593 (2004). Additionally,
unprofessional conduct includes acts that are commonly understood by the profession to be
prohibited. See Salerian vy. Maryland State Board of Physicians 176 Md. App. 231, 248 (2007).
In both Salerian and Finucan the courts approved the use of the AMA Guidelines and an opinion
of the AMA’s Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs, respectively, in determining whether the
conduct at issue was unprofessional. Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 249; Finucan, 380 Md. at 593.
The Board’s regulations provide that “the disciplinary panels may consider the Principles of
Ethics of the American Medical Association.” COMAR 10.32.02.16. The American Medical
Association (“AMA”) Code of Medical Ethics’ Opinion on Physicians Treating Family Members
(Opinion 8.19) and the AMA’s Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 1.2.1 were admitted into
evidence and considered by the State’s expert in reaching her conclusion that Dr. Mikhail’s
conduct was unprofessional.

Ethics Opinion 8.19 states “[p]hysicians generally should not treat . . . members of their
immediate family.” The opinion discusses how “{p]rofessional objectivity may be compromised
when an immediate family member . . . is the patient; the physician’s personal feelings may
unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment, thereby interfering with the care

being delivered.” The ethics opinion states that “[p]hysicians may fail to probe sensitive areas

3
 

PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

Having considered testimony, demeanor evidence, and the exhibits in evidence, I find the
following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:
Respondent’s Professional Background

lo “The Respondent’s country of origin is Egypt. He completed his medical
schooling at the University of Alexandria in Egypt and obtained his license as a general
practitioner in Egypt. The Respondent practiced medicine in Egypt for approximately five to six
years before coming to the United States in approximately 1991, initially settling in New Jersey,
where his wife had family.

2. Between 1992 and 1995, the Respondent obtained certification from ECFMG? for
licensure in the United States, and in 1995, he moved to Maryland to start a three-year residency
program, having matched with Prince George’s Hospital in Cheverly, Maryland.

3. After completing his residency, the Respondent was offered a position as a family
practitioner at a primary care practice with five to six other doctors, He remained with that
practice until approximately 2002, when he opened his own practice.

4. Since 2002, the Respondent has been a solo practitioner. He employs two
medical assistants and a front desk employee, In his practice, the Respondent treats adults and
children six years of age and older for a variety of ailments, including diabetes, depression, .

" bipolar disease, anxiety, high cholesterol, heart disease, hypertension, orthopedics, and some
gynecological issues. He sees approximately 25 patients a day and has a patient population of

4,000 to 5,000 individuals.

’ * The RCFMG is the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates. See COMAR 10.32.01.02B(11)._
8

 
5. The Respondent recéived training in psychiatric disorders as part of his medical
education and training in both Egypt and the United States, and he was tested on psychiatric
disorders as part of his family practice board examination.

6. Approximately ten to fifteen percent of the Respondent’s patient population is
diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder. He prescribes psychotropic medication as part of his
practice and refers patients to psychiatrists and counselors as needed. |

7. The Respondent regularly treats patients for infections; he sees approximately five
patients per day for acute infections. ,

8, The Respondent regularly prescribes antibiotics in the course of his practice.
9. The Respondent has not previously been disciplined by the Board.

Respondent’s Treatment of fo
Arabic as her native language and is not fluent in English. After moving to Maryland for the
Respondent’s medical residency progam i began to experience what the
Respondent concluded were symptoms of Po
| She was consistently reluctant to seek treatment for her symptoms, due in part to
the language barrier and to her discomfort in seeking treatment from others outside of her
culture. |

Jl. During the Respondent’s psychiatric rotation of his residency, the attending

physician, pr iii spoke. Arabic and he spoke with I provide an informal

tnedical consult. Dr BP ss that ae .:: experiencing a: he
" suggested that she might benefit from ab: cautioned the Respondent to be cognizant of
the potential for side effects, !

12. Thereafter, beginning in approximately 1998, the Respondent began prescribing

psychiatric medications for his wife and acting as her primary care physician.

13. Initially the Respondent prescribed his wife ne ,
ia As aresult, the Respondent changed his wife’s medication i
PS continued, so the Respondent increased her dose of

Po That dose was effective, and she continued with that dose,!!

14.°° Throughout the time when he was treating her, the Respondent informally

for side effects from the psychiatric medication, but he did not make and keep an ongoing record

of his observations.

15. Over a course of years, the Respondent also prescribed a Schedule IV

cps,” tot treat

16, In addition, at various times between May 2012 and December 2020, the

   
 

Respondent prescribed the following medications for his wife: Po

 

a:

10

An attempt to wean, = 7 = — = in a return : a symptoms,
2 Controlled Dangerous Substance
3 Certain of the prescriptions,

ee "2 “cigivally prescribed by other doctors,
and the Respondent later continued those prescriptions, .

10
17, From May 2012 to June 2020, the Respondent prescribed 2
least 33 times.

18. The Respondent did not keep and maintain regular records of his treatment of
HEE From approximately 1998 until 2020, the only medical record the Respondent made and

kept for her was a November 10, 2017 pre-operative report that was required by her treating
urologist in advance of a surgical procedure, -

19. During the time when the Respondent was acting os BB eisnary care
physician, she saw a separate urologist, gynecologist, dermatologist, and eye doctor.

20. The Respondent continued to prescribe medications, including psychiatric
medications, for ena to act as her primary care physician until sometime in the second
half of 2020, after he received the Board’s subpoena and spoke with his attorney. The
Respondent and i: since found a primary care doctor from whom she is comfortable

receiving care. The Respondent no longer treats mi or prescribes medications to her.
Respondent's Prescribing i ii

21. Around the time when the Respondent prescribed] fo ||

visited them from Egypt for several months, Atthe

Respondent’s suggestion, im: some of HE »<sivion
to see if it would help her :

22, The Respondent evaluated. PY taking a history of her symptoms

and treatment before suggesting she tty EE o:<scsiption.

23. The Respondent did not make and keep any record of this evaluation of

il
24, After returning to Egypt, che TE <31<s124 and was

prescribed ay her own healthcare provider; over time, she concluded that the version

HE. 2i2i- in the United States.

25, In approximately 2013, as a result of EE iiss2:st2cti0n with the

medication available in Egypt, the Respondent began prescribing [in ma s name
with the intention of sending it 1 i: her use.
26. . HE 08 fill the prescription at a local pharmacy and the

prescription would be billed through fs insurance; then a friend or community member
who was traveling to Egypt would carry the prescription to Po in
Egypt. .

27. The Respondent continued writing the prescription for a: a:
name but io use until 2020, when he was contacted by the Board. He no
longer prescribes medication for PY either directly or indirectly.

28. The Respondent did not perform periodic examinations of a:

keep any medical records for TT curing the time when he was prescribing

ae: her use. : :
29, The Respondent did not consult wit s treating rheumatologist

during the time when he was prescribing For her use.

30. a : pharmacy records and her November 2017 pre-operative

medical report reflect the BE: -s:iptions, thereby indicating that she was taking

a: she was not.

 

available in Egypt was not as effective as the version of

12
The Ethical Prohibition on Treating Family Members

31. In May 2012, the AMA Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs published
Opinion 8,19, AMA Code of Medical Ethics’ Opinion on Physicians Treating Family Members, ,
in the AMA. Journal of Ethics (AMA Opinion 8.19). The opinion remained available via the
AMA Journal of Ethics’ website. (State Ex. 9.)

32. AMA Opinion 8.19 states that “Physicians generally should not treat themselves
or members of theix inaniediate families.” (State Ex. 9 at 1.) It explains that treatment of family
members raises concerns about professional objectivity; the physician’s willingness to inquire
into sensitive matters relevant to treatment and the patient’s willingness to reveal such
information; the potential for family tensions to impact the professional relationship; the
potential for treatment to be rendered beyond the physician’s area of expertise or training; and

_ patient autonomy and informed consent. ;

33. AMA Opinion 8.19 allows that treatment of immediate family members would
not be inappropriate in emergency situations or where there is no other qualified physician
available, It farther notes that physicians should not act as a primary care provider for
immediate family: members and that providing routine care to a family member is only
acceptable for “short-term, minor problems.” (State Ex. 9 at1.)

34, AMA Opinion 8.19 further states, “Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate
for physicians to write prescriptions for controlled substances for... immediate family
members.” (State Ex. 9 at 1.)

35, In its winter 2012 newsletter, the Board included a write-up publicizing AMA
Opinion 8 19. In the write-up, the Board further noted that it was permitted to use the AMA

code of ethics in its disciplinary proceedings. The Board also observed that Maryland courts had

13
recognized “an ethical bar to the treatment of family members” except in isolated situations. (Jt.
Ex. 1.)

. 36. The AMA reiterated the ethical limitations on the treatment of immediate family
members in its Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 1.2.1, which was published in or about 2016 and
was available via the AMA’s website.'* (State Ex. 10.) .

37. The Board has taken disciplinary action against physicians who provided regular
medical treatment to family members. Its disciplinary actions are reflected in public documents,
available on the Board’s website. .

. 38. For instance, on June 3, 2020, the Board found Ralph B. Epstein, M.D., “guilty of .
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine . . . for providing medical treatment to his
family members ....” (State Ex. 13 at 000266.) The Board’s disciplinary decision in that case
is a public document, available on its website.

39. , Similarly, on June 19, 2020, the Board entered into a Consent Order with Peter G.
Uggowitzer, MLD., in which the Board concluded that he was guilty of unprofessional conductin .
the practice of medicine for treating two family members for several years and for self-
prescribing CDS. (See Resp. Ex. 6.)

. 40. Within the Respondent’s country of origin, physicians do treat family members.

DISCUSSION
Applicable Law
Tn order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public, the Maryland Legislature

has charged the Board with regulating physicians licensed to practice in Maryland. Health Occ. .

4 The exhibit does not contain a publication date and the website information printed on the bottom of the exhibit
does not indicate the date it was printed, However, the Statement of Charges identifies the opinion as being from
2016, and there was no contention to the contrary. .

14
§§ 1-102, 14-205. Among its duties, the Board is responsible for overseeing licensing,
investigating complaints, ‘and disciplining physicians. ‘Health Occ. §§ 14-205, 14-401. The |
Board’s disciplinary powers include reprimanding a physician, placing a physician on probation,
‘or suspending or revoking a physician’s license. Id, § 14-404. The grounds on which the Board
may take such disciplinary action include, as relevant here, unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine; willfully making or filing a false report or record in the practice of .
medicine; and violating any provision of the Maryland Medical Practices Act, any rule or
regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the practice of
medicine, Id.§ 14-404(a)(3)Gi), (11), (43). The Board’s disciplinary authority is subject to the
physician’s right to a-hearing prior to imposition of the disciplinary action, Id. §§ 14-404(a), 14-
405(a).

Neither the Maryland Medical Practices Act nor the regulations governing disciplinary
and licensing proceedings before the Board specifically set out and allocate the burden of proof
at a hearing on disciplinary charges. When not otherwise provided by statute or regulation, the
standard of proof in a contested case hearing before the OAH is a preponderance of the evidence,
and the burden of proof rests on the party making an assertion or aclaim. Md. Code Ann., State
Gov't § 10-217 (2021); Comm'r of Labor and Indus, y, Bethlehem Steel Corp., 344 Md. 17, 34-
(1996) (citing Bernstein v. Real Estaté Comm'n, 221 Md, 221, 231 (1959)),; COMAR
28,02.01.21K. Accordingly, the State bears the burden of proving the alleged charges against the
Respondent. That is, the State must show that it is “more likely so than not,” when all the .
evidence is considered, that the Respondent committed the violations with which he is charged.

Coleman y. Anne Arundel Cty. Police Dep’t, 369 Md. 108, 125 n.16 (2002).

 

15 See Health Occ. § 14-701, 15
For the reasons set forth below, I find that the State has satisfied its burden of proof
Unprofessional Conduct in the Practice of Medicine
The charges brought against the Respondent assert that by providing treatment o
and by failing to maintain records or progress notes for the treatment he provided
to them, and by failing to periodically cxonin the Respondent comrhitted
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. (Charges, q 12.) Section 14-404 of the
Health Occupations Article authorizes disciplinary action against a licensed physician who “[i]s
guilty of... [ujnprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.” Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii). .
JL “Unprofessionalism and the Treatment of Family Members.
| At the hearing, the parties spent a considerable amount of time addressing the ethics of
treating family members. The Respondent acknowledged that he was required to follow the
professional standards set by the Board but maintained that he was not specifically aware of a
prohibition on providing regular medical care to immediate family members. He further
explained that the opposite was true in Egypt (that family-member physicians were viewed as a
source of trusted care) and that the prohibition on treating family members had not been covered
during his training in the United States. .
The statute does not define what constitutes “unprofessional.conduct.” The Court of
Appeals of Maryland in addressing subsection 14-404(a)(3) of the Maryland Medical Practices
- Act has explained:
The term refers to conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of a
profession, or conduct which is unbecoming a member in good standing of a
profession. Shea v. Bd. of Medical Exam’rs, 8\ Cal.App.3d 564, 146 Cal. Rptr.

653, 660 (1978). See also Pietsch v. Minnesota Bd. of Chiropractic Exam’rs, 662
N.W.2d 917, 923-24 (Minn. App. 2003) (“unprofessional conduct” is, of itself, a

16
sufficiently definite ground upon which a board may revoke a'license even in the
absence of regulations defining what constitutes “unprofessional conduct”)[,]

Finucan v. Bd. of Physicians, 380 Md. 577, 593 (2004). What constitutes “unprofessional
conduct” is “determined by the ‘common judgment’ of the profession as found by the .
professional licensing board.” Id. To this end, the applicable regulations provide that the Board
may consider the AMA’s principles of ethics. COMAR 10,32.02.16.

As of at least May 2012, the AMA established, explained, and published its stance on the

ethics of treating family members. _

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their

“smmediate families. Professional objectivity may be compromised when an
immediate family member . . . is the patient; the physician’s personal feelings
may unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment, thereby ~
interfering with the care being delivered, Physicians may fail to probe sensitive
areas when taking the medical history or may fail to perform intimate parts of the
physical examination. Similarly, patients may feel uncomfortable disclosing
sensitive information or undergoing an intimate examination when the physician
is an immediate family member. ... When treating themselves or immediate

family members, physicians may be inclined to treat problems that ate beyond
their expertise or training. If tensions develop ina physician’s professional
relationship with a family member, . . . such difficulties may be carried over into
the family member’s personal relationship with the physician.

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also
relevant when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family.
Family members may be reluctant to state their preference for another physician.
or decline a recommendation for fear of offending the physician.... Likewise,
physicians may feel obligated to provide care to immediate family members even
if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake . . . treatment of
immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings where
there is no other qualified physician available, physicians should not hesitate to
treat... family members until another physician becomes available. In addition,
while physicians should not serve as a primary or regular care provider for
immediate family members, there are situations in which routine care is
acceptable for short-term, minor problems, Except in emergencies, it is not

17
when taking the medical history,” and that, “[s]imilarly, patients may feel uncomfortable
disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an intimate examination.” Finally, the opinion
states, “[e]xcept in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write prescriptions for
controlled dangerous substances for . . . family members.”

The ALJ found that the restrictions and limitations on treatment of family members was
widely understood in the profession and that Dr. Mikhail’s treatment of family members
breached an ethical code of physician practice. The Panel adopts these ALJ findings. The AMA’s
adoption and publication of its stance against physicians treating family members in ethics
opinions, the Board’s history of discipline against physicians for treating family members, and
testimony from Dr. Mikhail and the State’s expert recognizing the restrictions on treating family
members together establish that treatment of family members for long-term, non-emergency
treatment was commonly understood by licensed physicians to be unprofessional conduct.

Dr. Mikhail acted as Family Member 1’s primary care physician from 1998 until 2020.
He treated her for various conditions including psychiatric conditions and prescribed various
medications for chronic and acute conditions including one Controlled Dangerous Substance and
medications for psychiatric care. The ALJ found, and the Panel agrees, that Dr. Mikhail’s
treatment was not short-term care, emergency treatment, or care rendered because no other
providers were available. Some of the risks suggested by the AMA opinions presented
themselves here. Family Member 1 was not candid about her other conditions and treatment,
failing to tell Dr. Mikhail about concurrent treatment. Dr. Mikhail’s treatment of Family
Member 1 for her psychiatric conditions included sensitive symptoms and topics that, as the
State’s expert explained, may have caused discomfort to Family Member 1 and her conditions

therefore were not fully probed by Dr. Mikhail. He acknowledged that it was difficult to set

4
appropriate for physicians to write prescriptions for controlled substances for
themselves or immediate family members.

(State Ex. 9; see also State Ex. 10.)

The Board publicized this ethical prohibition in its winter 2012 newsletter, in which it
advised licensees: of the AMA’s stance on the ethics of treating family members; that the Board
was pertriitted to use the AMA’s code of ethics in its disciplinary proceedings; and that the
Maryland courts had recognized this prohibition as far back as 2004, citing Finucan, 380 Md, at
599 n.6. (Jt. Ex. 1.) In addition, the Board has previously disciplined physicians for treating and
prescribing to family members; its orders in those cases are public documents available on the
Board’s website, (See, ¢.g., Resp. Ex. 6; State Ex. 13.) Dr. i. testimony established that
prior to this, as early as approximately 1996, the ethical concerns of treating family members

. were addressed by the Board in a video (“Crossing a Line”) that was requized viewing for‘newly
licensed. physicians and for established physicians when they were next relicensed.

The testimony of the Respondent’s own expert witness, Dr. fF also supports .
the conclusion that the prohibition on treating family members was commonly known within the
profession. In this regard, during examination about the Respondent’s prescription o

Dr. Mi was asked if hey ‘was aware of the AMA ethics opinions cited by
the Board. Dr esponded that he was not aware of the specific opinions prior to being
retained in connection with this proceeding, but clarified that nonetheless, “I of course knew that
one doesn’t prescribe for one’s family.” The State’s expert, Dr i likewise testified that she
was aware, since her residency (1986-1989), that it was unprofessional to treat family members;
she noted that doctors routinely refer family members to other physicians. She also explained.

that itis a physician’s responsibility to inform themself of the applicable ethical standards.

18
The AMA’s adoption and publication of its stance against physicians treating family
members, the Board’s recognition of that stance, its history of discipline against physicians for
treating family members, and Dr, mi: and Dr. i: recognition of the prohibition establish
that the statutory prohibition against unprofessional conduct was commonly understood by
licensed physicians to prohibit treatment of family members, As the Court of Appeals noted in
F inucan, this was sufficient to advise licensed physicians that providing long-term, non-
emergency treatment and prescriptions to family members was unprofessional and prohibited. °
See 380 Md. at 593; see also Mesbahi vy. Bd. of Physicians, 201 Md. App. 315, 337-38 (2011)
(“A physician is likewise presumed to know the laws regulating the practice of medicine[.]”).
Whether the Respondent, himself, had actual knowledge of the AMA opinions or the ethical
_ prohibition is not relevant to whether he is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of

medicine,

2. The Respondent’s Care of ||

The Respondent acknowledged acting as a: primary care physician from
approximately 1998 to 2020; he acknowledged prescribing her Po
various other medications for chronic and acute conditions. This was not short-term. care,
emergency treatment, or care rendered only until another provider became available,!® ‘The
Respondent testified that over the years he suggested see another doctor, but that she
was not comfortable with that due to the language barrier and cultural differences and that, fora

period of time, it would have meant he had to take time off of work to drive her, as she did not

'6 In addition to prescribing psychiatric medications for a long-standing condition, the records reflect that the
eh i: — other ee care a For instance, he ordered _ of| —_—
(State Ex, 6 at
00049.) The Respondent ordered bloodwork to diagnose and treat —E eee
wescribed her medication fo Id. at 00050, 00053.) The Respondent sent ‘or screening
ie Id. at 00051.) Additionally, he performed her pre-
operative physical in November 2017 and sent her for routine lab work. (Ud. at 00052-53.)

19

   
  
have alicense. The Respondent asserted that if he did not provide care ton: would
have forgone the care she needed.

I reject this as a justification for the Respondent acting yO primary care
physician for over twenty years. The evidence established that ae... other
medical providers when needed, including a urologist; a gynecologist, a dermatologist, and an
/ eye doctor. Indeed, she initially saw the dermatologist without even informing the Respondent.

: P| also agreed to speak with Dr. | that he could consult with the
Respondent about her mental health. The Respondent and a... within a reasonable
distance of a populated area with a plethora of medical providers. whild:2y have been
reluctant to see a provider other than the Respondent, ‘the evidence establishes that she did so
when necessary. It was up to the Respondent, as Dr fporrines, to establish the appropriate
boundaries.

Moreover, the care the Respondent provided to BB aisea some of the ethical
concerns identified by the AMA. For instance, she initially failed to disclose to the Respondent
that she saw a dermatologist for Ben was prescribed medication for that condition,
illustrating concetns with patient candor. (State Ex. 6 at 00053.) The Respondent provided
psychiatric care +o which is plainly a sensitive area that raises concerns of objectivity.
The Respondent acknowledged that it was difficult for him to set boundaries with ae: to
concerns as to how she would react.

In addition, the Respondent failed to meet professional standards by failing to maintain
records of his treatment. During her testimony, Dr. BE cnowledgeably explained the need for
accurate and ongoing medical records; the records ensure a thoughtful process, they remind the

physician of the patient’s history and the cate previously provided, and they ensure an informed

20
and orderly transfer of a patient’s care, The Respondent provided care to a: an informal’
basis, treating her at home and not in his medical office. (See, e.g., State Ex. 6 at 00054 fo
Po and 00055 (“{S]o what’s the purpose of a medical record because I
know everything about her more than she knows maybe . .. .”).), Despite acting as her primary
care physician for decades and prescribing medications, including Schedule IV CDS (meaning it
had a potential for abuse or dependency), the Respondent failed to contemporaneously document
the treatment provided or ensure continuity of care.!? The problems with failing to maintain
contemporaneous medical records is apparent in the November 2017 pre-operative report
prepared by the Respondent, which omitted her diagnoses for Po
(See State Ex. 4A at 0012-14.)
3. The Respondent's Care of Po .
Additionally, the Respondent regularly prescribed a: use by PY
" for a chronic condition He advised the Board of this during the course of its

investigation, and he acknowledged this at the hearing as well. (See, e.g., State Ex. 4 at 0009;

State Ex. 6 at 00056-58.) The Respondent prescribed for a: approximately

2013 to 2020, even though a: her own theumatologist in her home country.
In prescribing medication io Respondent was regularly treating her; this
was not emergency care, short term cate, or care rendered only until another provider became
available. As discussed above, providing ongoing, routine treatment for an immediate family

: member is contrary to the ethical standards to which physicians are held. (State Ex. 9; State Ex.
10.) The Respondent’s behavior exemplified the concer that the family relationship may impact

objectivity and the level of care provided: he did not make periodic examinations of P|

17 ty addition, although the Respondent sen BE cor-1eb work over the years, he did not maintain the results of
those tests. (State Ex. 6 at 00053.)

al
BA vb he saw in person only every three to four years, or maintain any medical records for
Po he did not speak with iT ; treating doctor during the time he
prescribed medications for her, despite stating that he relied on the expertise of the treating
doctor; instead, he depended on J to update him on the care her treating doctor
was providing. Further, the Respondent obtained the medication by writing the prescription in
ma. name, and he then ferried the prescription medication to ., relying
on various third parties who, by happenstance, were traveling to-Egypt. See discussion, infra, p.
22. .

4. The Respondent is Guilty of Unprofessional Conduct in the Practice of Medicine.

“The Respondent’s conduct—acting as mz 8 ptimary care physician for decades and
regularly prescribing medication for TE : use, but in Es name—was
unethical. Failure to abide by recognized ethical standards constitutes unprofessionalism.
Finucan, 380 Ma. at 593. It is apparent that his conduct was within the practice of medicine,
Health Occ., § 14-101(0) (defining “practice medicine” to include diagnosing, treating,
preventing or prescribing for any physical, mental, or emotional ailment, with or without
compensation); see also Finucan, 380 Md. at 596-97 (giving broad interpretation to “in the
practice of medicine” as used within section 14-404),

The Respondent also failed to make and keep medical records for either a: i
a «:< he did not periodically examine [ie he explained that he talked
to her about her treatment and saw her in person wheri she came to visit every three to four years.
As explained by pr. i this is coritrary to the standards of professionalism expected of
physicians. Again, it is apparent that this was within the practice of medicine. Health Oce., §

14-101(0).

22.
Accordingly, the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of

medicine, as charged. Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)di).

Willfully Making or Filing a False Report or Record
in.the Practice of Medicine

The Respondent is also charged with violating the Maryland Medical Practices Act by
willfully making or filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine. (Charges, { 12.)
Such conduct is in violation of subsection 14-404(a)(11) of the Health Occupations Article.. The
charge is based on the Respondent’s practice of writing prescriptions in a: name for a

medication intended for a : use. The Respondent admitted to this practice

during the Board’s investigation, in order to explain to the Board why he was prescribing two.
similar medications for (State Ex. 4 at 0009; State Ex. 6 at 00056-58.) The
Respondent’s testimony at the hearing was in accord, Further, on cross-examination, the

Respondent expressly acknowledged that he made untrue statements in the prescription and that
he did so knowingly, willingly, and voluntarily. /

The Respondent explained that he was trying to help BE ->:i0 the
medication from the United States and that writing the prescription in name was the

only way he could think of to get the medication for ro Whether the Respondent

had a malicious motive or a compassionate one is irrelevant at this point in the analysis. See Kim
vy, Bd. of Physicians, 423 Md, 523, 544 (2011).

At the hearing, the Respondent described the process by which he obtained the
medication ro iii Although he could not say with certainty that the prescription

was consequently billed through ma: insurance, he ultimately conceded that “most likely it

went through the insurance,” Further, as a result of this scheme, the pre-operative report that the

23
Respondent prepared for: surgery incorrectly reflected that she was taking | |

the Respondent credibly explained that the inclusion of| m- this report was accidental.

The evidence plainly establishes that the Respondent knowingly, intentionally, and
repeatedly made a false statement in a record by writing prescriptions for || in 8
name with the intention that the medication be used yO Prescribing
constitutes the practice of medicine. Health Occ. § 14-101 (0(2)(0). Accordingly, the
Respondent willfully made a false report or record in the practice of medicine. Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(11).

Violation of a provision of the Maryland Medical Practices Act, a Board Rule or
Regulation, or a State or Federal Law Pertaining to the Practice of Medicine

 

 

The statement of the charges against the Respondent includes a charge for violating
subsection 14-404(a)(43), which provides:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a .

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the

disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

- (43) Except for the licensure process described under Subtitle 3A of this title,
violates any provision of this title, any rule or regulation adopted by the
Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the practice of medicine[.]
The statement of charges does not set out any independent factual or legal basis for the alleged
violation of 14-404(a)(43). (Charges, [{{ 12'& 13.) The same conduct alleged to be in violation
of subsections 14-404(a)(3) and (11) forms the basis for this charge. (/d.) Although there is no

separate and independent basis for this charge, the above violations technically constitute a

violation of subsection 14-404(a)(43).

24
Sanctions

The purpose of imposing sanctions under section 14-404 of the Maryland Medical
Practices Act is not to punish, but rather to protect. As the Court of Appeals of Maryland
explained in McDonnell v. Comm'n on Medical Discipline:

The purpose of disciplinary proceedings against licensed professionals is

not to punish the offender but rather as a catharsis for the profession. and a

prophylactic for the public. See Maryland St, Bar Ass’n v. Agnew, 271 Md. 543,

318 A.2d 811 (1974); Bar Ass’n v. Marshall, 269 Md..510, 307 A.2d 677 (1973).

See also Unnamed Physician v. Comm'n, 285 Mad. 1, 400 A.2d 396 (1979),

quoting In re Kindschi, 52 Wash.2d 8, 319 P.2d 824 (1958).

301 Md. 426, 436 (1984) (emphasis added). ,

With this purpose in mind, -the Board is authorized to reprimand a physician, place the
physician on probation, or suspend or revoke a physician's license for a violation of section 14-
404 of the Maryland Medical Practices Act. Health Occ. § 14-404(a); COMAR 10.32.02.09A.
Instead of or in addition to a disciplinary sanction, the Board may assess a fine against a licensee.
Health Occ. § 14-404(d)(1); COMAR 10,32,02,09A(3)(@d). The Board may also include
rehabilitative conditions as a part of the sanction. Health Occ. §14-404(e); COMAR
10,32.02.09A(5).

The Board has promulgated a sanctioning matrix to guide it ih the consideration of the
appropriate sanction and any fine. COMAR 10,32.02.10; see also COMAR 10.32.02.09. Upon
consideration of aggravating and mitigating factors, the sanction ultimately imposed by the

_ Board may depart from the guidelines. COMAR 10.32.02.09A(8), (9), B.

Under the guidelines, the sanction for a physician who is guilty of unprofessional conduct

in the practice of medicine, consisting of non-sexual ethical violations, ranges from a minimum

sanction of a reprimand to a maximum sanction of revocation. The fine ranges from a minimum

of $5,000.00 to a maximum or $50,000.00. For a physician who willfully makes or files a false

25
report or record in the practice of medicine the sanction ranges from a minimum of a reprimand
to a maximum of revocation; the fine ranges from $10,000.00 to $50,000.00, Unsurprisingly,
there is no range of sanctions or fines specified for violation of subsection 14-404(a)(43), a
flexible category that could encompass a broad array of offenses.'#

Here, the State recommends the imposition of a 30-day suspension of the Respondent’s “
license to practice in Maryland, followed by a term of two years of probation with the conditions -
that the Respondent (1) pay a fine of $15,000.00 and (2) enroll in and complete, within six
months, courses in medical record keeping and medical ethics. The Respondent, on the other
hand, advocates for a sanction that is at the bottom of, or even below, the range specified in the
Boards sanctioning guidelines and argues that suspension of his license would be an undue
hardship and that any suspension would result in the withdrawal of his board certification.

Although sanctions serve the purpose of protecting the public, by their very nature,
sanctions have a punitive aspect from the licensee’s perspective, See McDonnell, 301 Md. at
436. The applicable regulation sets out aggravating and mitigating factors to be considered;
mere amelioration of the punitive effect is not a mitigating factor for consideration. COMAR
10.32.02.09B(5), (6). Thus, even though he has tried to frame it as a matter impacting patient
care, I reject the Respondent’s argument that the punitive impact of the sanction warrants

‘mitigation.

 

18 As noted, the Board has specified the maximum and minimum sanctions and fines for violations of (14-404(a)G)
and (11) and also provided for a departure from those ranges where there are mitigating or aggravating
circumstances. COMAR 10.32,02.09A(8), (9), In light of that, there would be no reason to enlarge the sanction
based on an entirely duplicative charge for violating subsection 14-404(a)(43), without more. Imposing a separate
or additional sanction for violating subsection 14-404(a)(43) would, in this case, seem to be needlessly punitive and
duplicative and contrary to the Board’s own sanctions guidelines. See also COMAR 10.32.02.09A(6). .

26
Nonetheless, there are several significant mitigating factors. Pertinent here, the
Respondent has no prior history of being disciplined, he cooperated with the Board’s
investigation, and his examination under oath reveals he made a full disclosure during the
Board’s investigation, as he did at the hearing. Indeed, he disclosed that he began treating |
Bg vc earlier than the available records establish. I also note that the Respondent was not

motivated by any financial considerations, and there was no evidence of nefarious intent in his

treatment ii As a result of the investigation, the Respondent ceased
prescribing ii” and he worked with ma. find a primary care physician
with whom she was comfortable and prepared a summary of a: care for the physician
Or. |

I credited the Respondent’s explanation that he was unaware of the ethical prohibition on
the treatment of family members and that it was normal for physicians to do so in Egypt. He
explained that, in Egypt, family-member physicians were viewed as very trustworthy sources of
care, In crediting the Respondent’s testimony, I noted that he answered questions frankly and
thoroughly, and his tone, demeanor, and manner of responding did not appear deceptive or
evasive. Further, the Respondent’s testimony was consistent with his statements to the board
nearly a year earlier. Even prior to that, there was no evidence that during the decades in which
he acted as her primary physician, the Respondent tried to hide his treatment of An.
Respondent asked Dr. i: a consult for me Dr. Ha: recommended
treatment options; the Respondent prepared and sent a pre-operative report of :
urologist. His actions were consistent with an unknowing violation, While his ignorance of the

accepted standards does not excuse the Respondent’s violation, it bears on his culpability and

27
boundaries. Further, Dr. Mikhail’s treatment was informal, outside of the office, and he failed to
treat Family Member 1 as he treated other patients as demonstrated by his failure to keep
progress notes (medical records), including for his prescribing of medications including CDS.

Treatment of Family Member 2

Dr. Mikhail also prescribed medication for Family Member 2 from 2013 to 2020. Again,
the treatment was not emergency care, short term care, or care rendered until another provider
became available. Family Member 2 resided in another country and Dr. Mikhail did not make
periodic examinations, maintain records, or even speak with Family Member 2’s primary treating
physician, instead relying on Family Member 2 to keep him updated about other medications that
Family Member 2 was taking.

Dr. Mikhail, however, did not write prescriptions to Family Member 2, Instead of
writing prescriptions in Family Member 2’s name, Dr. Mikhail wrote the prescriptions for
Family Member 1 who would then fill the prescription locally at a pharmacy and then transport
the medication to Family Member 2 abroad through intermediaries who happened to be traveling
to Family Member 2’s location outside the United States. Dr. Mikhail intentionally wrote those
prescriptions in the wrong name. “Willfully” making a false report “requires proof that the
conduct at issue was done intentionally, not that it was committed with the intent to deceive or
with malice.” Kim v. Maryland State Bd. of Physicians, 423 Md. 523, 546 (2011). Dr. Mikhail
acknowledged that he knowingly, willingly, and voluntarily made untrue statements in writing
that the prescriptions in Family Member 1’s name when the medications were intended for

Family Member 2 to use.
potential for rehabilitation and explains the extended period of time over which he treated ||

In contrast, however, the Respondent willfully created false records in connection with

the cescription intended for a : use but written in: name,

The Respondent explained that he felt pressured to help because he knew a:

suffering and he did not want to refuse a: request that he assist | Again,

I found the Respondent to be credible in his contention that he was motivated by a desire to assist

a: appease Nonetheless, his action was clearly willful. The

Respondent had to have recognized, at the time, that intentionally writing the prescription in

mi: name and soliciting others to unofficially carry the medication across national borders to

.. her use was contrary to accepted standards and. unprofessional.

Nonetheless, he continued this practice for many years. That he felt pressured to do so illustrates

the very reason for the ethical prohibition on treating immediate family members,

The lack of medical records i -< and the failure to examine his
a prescatbing for her over the course of years certainly created the ©

potential for injury. Dr. HEB persuasively identified and explained the concerns for potential

 

injury raised by the Respondent’s violations of the Maryland Medical Practices Act, including
over prescribing antibiotics, disclosure and informed consent issues, and the potential for
interruption of or tampering with ino cine sent to Fo

Having noted that there was the potential for injury, it bears noting that there was no
evidence that any actual injury occurred, The State pointed to the lack of medical records to
raise questions in this regard, Despite the lack of documentation that might reflect any injury,

- the Respondent was clearly motivated by a desire to aid his family members and acted within his

28
scope of practice, The Respondent testified that he regularly treats and prescribes for patients
with mental health disorders and was trained and tested on 1 this area.!? He also noted that
a: new doctor had not changed her medications. The Respondent observed ot
ma. doctor was continuing to monitor her j in Egypt throughout the entire time, that he
periodically spoke with i. see how she was progressing, and that there had
been no supply or tampering issues in connection with the being transported to =
Le

I cannot say the Respondent’s conduct was isolated, as it occurred over the course of
years and decades, though it was not conduct that more broadly impacted his patient population.
Furthermore, based on the Respondent’s testimony, his cooperation with the Board; his cessation
of the practices at issue, and his demeanor, I am confident that the Respondent is unlikely to
resume these practices,

Significantly, the Respondent exhibited rehabilitative potential at the hearing. Although
he emphasized the distinction in the practice in the United States versus Egypt and his concern
that his wife would not seek treatment if he did not provide it, this was offered by way of
explanation for his past actions, and not by way of continued denial. The Respondent explained
that he had never been advised of the ethical concems raised by treating family members and
stated that as a sole practitioner, he had not previously had the time to educate himself on such
considerations. He expressly stated that he now understood that the treatment was inappropriate.

He was firm and direct in his testimony that he would never again treat a family member and

agreed that he violated the ethical prohibition in his treatment off ond

19 Although the State questioned the Respondent about

29
The State argues that the Respondent lacked “insight into the fact that his actions were
dishonest and fraudulent.” (State’s Closing at 10.) It points to the Respondent’s answer to a
question about whether he had caused a financial loss to the insurance company by virtue of the
Cymbalta prescriptions being billed through Es insurance, I disagree with the State’s
argument. Given the context of that particular question, it elicited a response refuting that, on
whole, the insurance company sustained an actual monetary loss because of the Respondent’s
practices. I can infer nothing further from the Respondent’s answer; he acknowledged his
actions throughout the hearing and throughout the investigation and his testimony made clear
that he now thoroughly understood that his actions were wrong. He agreed that he made a false
statement in prescribing the Eo: i ; use. He was contrite, though
explanatory, in his testimony; he now clearly understood that he had violated the ethical
standards of the profession, and expressly stated as much,
The Respondent asked that for guidance I look to the sanctions that were imposed by
Consent: Order in Board Case No. 2219-0200B, In re Peter G. Uggowitzer, M.D. In that case, a
physician prescribed CDS to himself and two family memibers and admitted that he had acted as
one family member’s primary care physician for approximately 10 years and had prescribed
CDS for that family member for “several years.” The medical records the physician maintained
: for that family member lacked the relevant diagnosis and symptoms. The physician was given a_
reprimand, placed on one year of probation, and required to pay a $1,000.00 fine, and complete
an. ethics course within six months. (Resp. Ex. 6.) The Respondent asserts that this case is much
different than In re Ralph B. Epstein, AAD., Board Case Number 2218-0269, in which the .

: physician (who practiced in obstetrics and gynecology) treated three family members dating back

nearly two decades; twice, he performed elective surgery on a family member; he prescribed a

30
schedule I CDS repeatedly to one family member (39 times in 18 months), and in disregard of
red flags concerning the individual’s nse of the CDS; he provided treatment both inside and
outside of his area of practice; and he had been disciplined by the Board four times previously.
(State Ex. 13.) The Board revoked the physician’s license and imposed a fine of $50,000.

The Respondent’s case is nowhere near as egregious as the case of Dr. Epstein, While in
many respects it is similar to that of Dr. Uggowitzer, the Respondent here has the added
dimension of willfully falsifying a report or record in the practice of medicine, a very serious
consideration. Plainly, each disciplinary proceeding, including the case at hand, turns on a host
of facts particular to that matter.

The Respondent requests consideration of a downward departure from the sanctioning
guidelines. The balance of the mitigating factors is not so great as to warrant a downward
departure from the minimum sanctioning guidelines set out in regulation. That said, the
recommended sanction is well above the minimum guidelines and includes both a thirty-day
suspension and a $15,000.00 fine. Taking into account the evidence presented and the mitigating
and aggravating factors—including the patent willfulness with regard to the creation of a false
record, but also the demonstrated potential for rehabilitation, the lack of prior discipline, and the
clear unlikeliness of a recurrence—I find that the recommended sanction exceeds what is
necessary to protect the profession and the public and would be excessively punitive in design.

Based on the charged violations and the aggravating and mitigating factors, I find that the
evidence supports the disciplinary sanctions of a stayed suspension, provided that the
Respondent take a Board-approved course in medical recordkeeping and a separate Board-
approved course in medical ethics, both to be completed within six months of the Board’s final

decision; and that the Respondent complete a probationary period of two years, requiring

3h
payment of a $10,000.00 fine within one year of the Board’s final decision. Health Oce. § 14-
-404(a)(3), (11), (43), (CD), (e); COMAR 10.32.02.09A(3)(d), (4), (5).
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of law,
that the Respondent violated the alleged provisions of the law.. Md. Code Ann., Health Oce, §
14-404(a)(3), (11), (43) (2021). As a result, I conclude that the Respondent is subject to
disciplinary sanctions of a stayed suspension, conditioned on the Respondent’s completion of a
course in medical record keeping and a course in medical ethics within six months of the Board’s
final decision, and a two-year probationary period, conditioned on payment of a $10,000.00 fine .
within one year of the Board’s final decision. Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(3), (11), (43), (C1), (e);
COMAR 10.32.02.09A(3)(d), (4), (5), B; COMAR 10.32,02.10B(3), (11).

PROPOSED DISPOSITION

I PROPOSE that charges filed by the Maryland State Board of Physicians against the
Respondent on February 16, 2021 be UPHELD; and .

I PROPOSE that the Respondent be sanctioned by a stayed suspension, conditioned on
the completion, within six months, of a course in medical recordkeeping and a course in medical
ethics, and a two-year probationary period, conditioned on payment within one year of a

$10,000.00 fine.

January 4, 20221

Date Decision Issued Emily Daneker

, Administrative Law Judge.
ED/cj
#195429

32

 
RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

 

Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may-file written exceptions with
the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the captioned
case to the Office of Administrative Hearings and request a hearing on the exceptions. Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-216(a) (2021); COMAR 10.32.02.05. Exceptions must be filed within
fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order. COMAR 10,32.02.05B(1). The
exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary Panel of the Board of
Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Attn: Christine A. Farrelly,
Executive Director. A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attomey, and the
other party will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response
addressed as above. Id. The disciplinary panel will issue a final order following the exceptions
hearing or other formal panel proceedings. Md, Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-216, 10-221

(2021); COMAR 10.32.02.05C. The Office of Administrative Hearings is not a party to any
review process, :

Copies Mailed To:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director Diaa Y. Mikhai .
Compliance Administration
Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, MD 21215 Nicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel
Health Occupations Prosecution and

Robert Gilbert, Assistant Attorney General Litigation Division -

Administrative Prosecutor ' Office of the Attorney General

Health Occupations Prosecution and . 300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Litigation Division Baltimore, MD 21201

Office of the Attorney General
300 West Preston Street, Suite 207
Baltimore, MD 21201 ° :

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer
Health Occupations Prosecution and
Litigation Division

Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201

David J. McManus, Esquire

- Baxter, Baker, Sidle, Conn & Jones, PA
120 East Baltimore Street, Suite 2100
Baltimore, MD 21202

33
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing conduct, Disciplinary Panel A concludes, as a matter of law, that
Dr. Mikhail acted unprofessionally in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii), with respect to Family Member 1 and 2, made or filed a false report or record in the
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11), with respect to Family
Member 2, and violated provisions of this title, rule or regulations adopted by the Board, or State
or federal laws pertaining to the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(43), with respect to Family Member 1 and Family Member 2.

SANCTION

As a sanction, the ALJ recommended that the Board impose a stayed suspension, two
years of probation, courses in record keeping and ethics, and a $10,000 fine. The ALJ explained
that the Board’s mission is to protect the public and not to punish physicians. The ALJ cited the
sanctioning guidelines, which provide for sanctions between a reprimand and revocation for
grounds (3) and (11) and a fine between $5,000 and $50,000 for unprofessional conduct and
between $10,000 and $50,000 for filing a false report. COMAR 10.32.02.10B. The ALJ
recognized applicable mitigating factors finding that Dr. Mikhail was unaware of the violation
for treating family members, as it was normal practice where he was trained in Egypt. The ALJ
found that, while his ignorance does not excuse the conduct, it does impact his culpability. The
ALJ also found that Dr. Mikhail willfully created false records with respect to the prescription
intended for Family Member 2, and, though it was motivated by a desire to assist Family
Member 2, the ALJ found that his false prescribing was willful. The ALJ also noted that the lack
of medical records for both family members and his lack of examination for Family Member 2

created potential for injury. The aggravating factor is the length of the violation because Dr.

6

 
Mikhail’s conduct occurred over a period of many years. The ALJ found, based on Dr.
Mikhail’s testimony, his cooperation with the Board’s investigation, his cessation of the
prescribing practices after the charges were issued, and his demeanor, that he is unlikely to
resume the prescribing to family members, which demonstrated rehabilitative potential.

Dr. Mikhail takes exception to the ALJ’s proposed sanction and argues that the Board
should remove the stayed suspension and decrease the $10,000 fine. Dr. Mikhail argues that a
stayed suspension would not protect the public and is needlessly punitive. Dr. Mikhail focuses
on the ALJ’s finding that Dr. Mikhail was “unlikely to resume these practices” and exhibited
“rehabilitative potential.” Dr. Mikhail noted that he had not acted for financial or nefarious
reasons and was unaware of the ethical prohibitions on treating family members. Dr. Mikhail
also argues that a stayed suspension could affect his patients, causing him to lose his board
certification and credentials with his current insurance plan. Dr. Mikhail also recounted the
mitigating factors: He has no disciplinary history, he voluntarily disclosed the violations and
cooperated in the investigation, he was not motivated by financial considerations, he had no ill
intent, and he claims he committed an unknowing violation. For the same reasons, Dr. Mikhail
also argued that the fine was excessive given the circumstances.

The State argues that Dr. Mikhail’s conduct was significant. He treated Family Member
1 for complex, chronic conditions, including prescribing CDS. The Ethics Opinions note the
inherent dangers that exist when treating family members. The State argues that it is unlikely
that he was unaware of the Board’s general prohibition against physicians treating family
members based on the Board’s warnings over the years through newsletters, and numerous
orders. Further, the State notes that false prescriptions were also written for Family Member 2 in

the name of Family Member 1, which was an intentional falsification of a medical record. The

7
State explains that Dr. Mikhail willfully and knowingly engaged in this practice for many years.
The State recommends adopting the ALJ’s proposed decision and recommended sanction in full.

The Panel has considered the mitigating factors that apply Dr. Mikhail’s case, including
his lack of disciplinary history, his voluntary admission of the misconduct, his cooperation with
the investigation, and his rehabilitative potential COMAR § 10.32.02.09(B)(5), The Panel has
also considered the aggravating factors including, the deliberate false report, the potential for
patient harm, and the pattern of conduct for approximately twenty years of treating Family
Member | and seven years of treating Family Member 2. COMAR § 10.32.02.09(B)(6).

The Panel finds that Dr. Mikhail’s conduct was serious. Whether or not he was aware of
the ethical rule that treatment of family members was prohibited, he intentionally treated his
family members for many years. He also treated his family members differently than other
patients. He treated Family Member 1 at his home. He never kept medical records for either
Family Member 1 for the twenty-two years he treated Family Member 1 or Family Member 2 for
the seven years treating Family Member 2. He did not examine Family Member 2 and did not
consult with Family Member 2’s primary physician. His lack of knowledge regarding the ethics
of treating family members or the need to keep medical records, even for family members, is
troubling.

But more importantly, Dr. Mikhail made false representations, issuing prescriptions to
Family Member 2 in Family Member 1’s name for approximately seven years. Dr. Mikhail
prescribed to Family Member 2 by writing false prescriptions for Family Member 1 with the
intent and knowledge that Family Member 1 would fill the prescriptions and send those
prescriptions internationally, through intermediaries, to Family Member 2. Dr. Mikhail did so

willfully, and these false prescriptions are not due to a lack of training or based upon different

8
ethical standards between Egypt, where Dr. Mikhail trained, and the United States. His actions
were done knowingly, willingly, voluntarily, and deceptively.

Based on his intentional writing of false prescriptions, Dr. Mikhail’s arguments fall apart.
His claim that he deserves a lesser sanction because of his “unknowing violation” and his being
unaware “of the ethical prohibition here” are fully focused on his prescribing to family members
and he simply ignores the alarming willful violation regarding false prescriptions for Family
Member 2. Dr. Mikhail acknowledges that he knew that was not acceptable behavior to write
those false prescriptions, and yet he did it anyway. Based on its mandate of public protection, the
Panel believes that a meaningful sanction must reflect the serious nature of the false prescriptions
written by Dr. Mikhail. The Panel will impose a suspension for one week to impress upon Dr.
Mikhail that writing false prescriptions will not be tolerated. Ultimately, the Panel agrees with
the ALJ’s assessment that Dr. Mikhail has rehabilitative potential, and the short duration of the
suspension reflects the Panel’s intention to give Dr. Mikhail a second chance.

The Panel, thus, rejects Dr. Mikhail’s arguments regarding imposing a suspension and
will also impose a reprimand. The Panel accepts the ALJ’s recommended sanction in part; and
accepts the ALJ’s recommended two-year probationary period, recordkeeping course, ethics
course, and fine. The Panel modifies the ALJ’s recommended sanction, in part, and imposes a
suspension of five business days and imposes a reprimand.

ORDER

It is, by an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that DIAA Y. MDKHAIL, M.D., is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Mikhail is SUSPENDED for a period of FIVE (5) BUSINESS

DAYS; and it is further
ORDERED that after five business days, Board Disciplinary Panel A will
administratively terminate the suspension. The administrative termination of suspension will be
issued through an order of the Board or Board panel; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Mikhail is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of TWO
(2) YEARS.’ During the probationary period, Dr. Mikhail shall comply with the following
probationary terms and conditions:

(1) Within SIX (6) MONTHS, Dr. Mikhail is required to take and successfully complete

wee (1) medical recordkeeping and (2) professional ethics. The following terms

(a) It is Dr. Mikhail’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the disciplinary
panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) Dr. Mikhail must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that Dr.
Mikhail has successfully completed the courses;

(c) The courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal;

(d) Dr. Mikhail is responsible for the cost of the courses;

(2) within ONE (1) YEAR, Dr. Mikhail shall pay a civil fine of TEN THOUSAND

(10,000) DOLLARS. The Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check

made payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217,

Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not renew or reinstate Dr. Mikhail’s license

if Dr. Mikhail fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; it is further

ORDERED that, after Dr. Mikhail has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has passed, Dr.
Mikhail may submit to the Board a written petition for termination of probation. After

consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of the
disciplinary panel. Dr. Mikhail may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss
‘If Dr. Mikhail’s license expires while he is on probation, the probationary period and any probationary

conditions will be tolled. COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).
10
