IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ALICE O. ADAMS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number D52085 * Case Number 7719-0001

k * x * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On July 10, 2018, Alice O. Adams, M.D. entered into a Consent Order with Disciplinary
Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) wherein she
agreed to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and comply
with all of the MPRP’s recommendations. Dr. Adams enrolled in MPRP, but subsequently
withdrew from the program, and, therefore, on October 3, 2018, MPRP closed her case for cause
due to her unwillingness to follow MPRP’s recommendations,

FINDINGS OF FACT

Background

On or about September 20, 2017, the Board received a complaint alleging that Dr.
Adams’s office was dirty, and that Dr. Adams appeared to be impaired during an office visit by
exhibiting slurred speech and repetitive questioning. The Board opened an investigation into the
allegations. During the course of the investigation, the Board conducted two site visits and
issued a subpoena to the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”) for a list of
controlled dangerous substances (CDS) prescribed to Dr. Adams. The PDMP and pharmacy
records revealed prescriptions for opioids and benzodiazepines. On January 24, 2018, the Board
ordered Dr, Adams to be evaluated by MPRP. The evaluation concluded that Dr. Adams’s

personal and professional judgment was impaired and that she posed a risk to her patients.
As a result of the Board’s investigation and MPRP evaluation, on March 13, 2018, Panel
B summarily suspended Dr. Adams’s license to practice medicine.’ On April 6, 2018, Panel B
charged Dr. Adams with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md. Code Health Occ.
§14-404(a)(4) (is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent). On July 10, 2018, Dr.
Adams entered into a Consent Order with Panel B to resolve the summary suspension and the
April 6, 2018 charges.
Consent Order

In the Consent Order, Panel B concluded that Dr. Adams was professionally, physically,
or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. §14-404(a)(4). Panel B suspended Dr.

2

Adams’s medical license? Under the terms of the Consent Order, Dr. Adams agreed that her

license would remain suspended until MPRP found that she was safe to return to practice and she
fully and satisfactorily complied with several conditions, including the requirement that she
enroll in MPRP and fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules,
requirements, and recommendations.

The Consent Order also:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel B[.]

ORDERED that if the Respondent fails to comply with any term or condition of
this Consent Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms or
conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland. The Board or Disciplinary Panel may, in addition to one or more of
the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent[.]

' A post-deprivation hearing was held on May 23, 2018 and Panel B continued the summary suspension.
> The summary suspension was terminated as moot based on the resolution of the charges and the imposition of the
suspension,
Dr. Adams agreed and accepted to be bound by the Consent Order and its terms and conditions.
Violation of the Consent Order .

In accordance with the Consent Order, Dr. Adams enrolled in MPRP on July 27, 2018.
Dr. Adams signed a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement wherein she agreed to follow all
treatment recommendations made by MPRP. On September 25, 2018, the Board received a
critical event report from MPRP. As a result of the critical event, MPRP made additional
recommendations for Dr. Adams’s treatment plan. On October 3, 2018, Dr. Adams informed
MPRP that she was withdrawing from MPRP. Thereafter, MPRP discharged Dr. Adams from
the program for cause due to Dr. Adams’s unwillingness to follow the program’s
recommendations. Dr. Adams, through her attorney, informed the Board that her withdrawal
from MPRP was due to concerns about cost and convenience.

- Show Cause Hearing

On February 7, 2019, Panel B issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show
Cause alleging a violation of the Consent Order based on Dr. Adams’s failure to comply with
MPRP’s recommendations, - The Notice informed Dr. Adams that a show cause hearing was
scheduled for February 27, 2019 at 11:15 a.m. at the Board. The letter that accompanied the
Notice informed Dr. Adams that she was not required to attend the show cause hearing but
advised that Panel B may take further disciplinary action if she or her attorney did not attend the
hearing. On February 7, 2019, the State also mailed a list of documents to be offered as exhibits
at the show cause hearing to Dr. Adams’s attorney. On the morning of the hearing, Dr. Adams’s
attorney notified the administrative prosecutor that neither he nor Dr. Adams would be appearing
at the show cause hearing. Panel B held the show cause hearing, as scheduled. Neither Dr.

Adams nor her attorney were present at the hearing. The administrative prosecutor appeared on

3
behalf of the State and submitted the exhibits, which were admitted by the panel, and, which
were previously sent to Dr. Adams’s attorney. The administrative prosecutor recommended to
Panel B that Dr. Adams’s license be revoked based on the undisputed violation of the Consent
Order and her decision to withdraw from MPRP.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that Dr. Adams violated Condition 1 of the July 10, 2018 Consent
Order by withdrawing from MPRP and, thereby, failing to comply with MPRP’s
recommendations. Pursuant to the terms of the Consent Order, the panel is authorized to impose
additional sanctions on Dr. Adams’s license, including revocation.

ORDER

On an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel B, it is hereby

ORDERED that Alice O. Adams, M.D.’s license to practice medicine: in Maryland,
License Number D52085, is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the July 10, 2018 Consent Order is hereby
terminated as moot based upon the revocation; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document.

03/21/2019 Uhustine A-
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Ex¢cutive Director

Maryland State Board of Rbysicians

 

 
