 

 

Paul R. Johnson, M.D.

., —

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Paul R. Johnson, M.D. License Number: D52487 (expired)
Case Number: 2219-0012B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D52487,' effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that on or about July 10, 2018, and August 31, 2018, the Board
received a Mandated 10-Day Report from Hospital A notifying the Board that my
privileges had been summarily suspended on June 29, 2018, based on a patient incident
involving a patient safety issue. In lieu of appealing the suspension of my hospital

' My license expired on September 30, 2018; however, pursuant to Health Occ. §14-403, unless a
disciplinary panel agrees to accept the surrender of a license, the individual may not surrender a license
while the individual is under investigation.
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Paul R. Johnson, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

privileges, I voluntarily surrendered my privileges on August 17, 2018. The Board initiated
an investigation of my medical practice and two peer reviewers concurred in a review of
six patient records, I failed to meet the standard of quality care in three of the cases, and
that my documentation was inadequate in all six of the records. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure these allegations shall be treated as proven and that
these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(22) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care...) and (40) (fails to keep adequate medical records...).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit
this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in
any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2016), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, J understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I
ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Paul R. Johnson, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before
signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand
both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that
I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

' Signature on File

~ Paul RK. Johnson, M.D. Qe
NOTARY

STATE OF \nciana
CITY/COUNTY OF A\yeien

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 24 day of Acre , 2019 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Paul R. Johnson, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

  

ON Bly, ~~ LEE S MCWHORTER
~ Notary Public, State of Indiana
Marion County

Commission # 703234
L/wo aes My Commission Expires
A Zn July 25, 2025

 

My commission expires:
ACCEPTANCE

oS qt—
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this l day ot Mag. 2019, I,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept Paul R. Johnson, M.D.’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of his
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Christine A. Farrelly, Ex: e Directo)
Maryland Board of Physicians
 

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Paul R. Johnson, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 4
