IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

REGINALD BIGGS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D54306 * Case Number: 7718-0078A
* * * * * * * * x * * x
CONSENT ORDER

On August 1, 2019, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged REGINALD BIGGS, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D54306, with violating the probationary conditions imposed under the
Consent Order, dated January 5, 2018 (the “2018 Consent Order”) and with violating the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.).

VIOLATION OF CONSENT ORDER

Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following terms and conditions
of the 2018 Consent Order:
Condition No. Four (4)

The Respondent shall implement the following practice changes:

(a) The Respondent’s patient charts shall include a section for the
performance of a mental status examination. The Respondent

shall perform a mental status examination on each patient
office visit;

(b) The Respondent’s progress notes shall include a section for
assessment of current medications and the rationale for
maintenance or adjustment of medications. The Respondent
shall review medications at each patient office visit and shall
document his rationale for maintenance or adjustment of
medications; and

(c) The Respondent shall perform complete psychiatric
assessments annually for all patients.

Condition No. Six (6)

During the probationary period, the Respondent is subject to a chart and/or
peer review conducted by the Board or Board disciplinary panel or its
agents, An unsatisfactory chart and/or peer review will constitute a
violation of probation[.]

Condition No. Seven (7)

The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. II § 14-101 — § 14-702, and all laws, statutes, and
regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland.

VIGLATIONS OF HEALTH GCC. § 14-404

Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the Act

under Health Occ. § 14-404:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical
and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this State; [and/or]

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review[.]
new history or record an MSE on this occasion. The Respondent saw Patient 4 on eight
occasions between May 6, 2018 and January 2019. All of the Respondent’s post-May
2018 progress notes contain brief MSEs but none specifically contain a suicide risk
assessment. The Respondent noted that Patient 4 had pain complaints and was apparently
under the care of a primary care physician for these complaints. The Respondent ordered
a series of toxicology screenings that were at times negative for amphetamine and
uniformly positive for alprazolam, both of which the Respondent was prescribing.
Patient 4’s toxicology screens were also positive for various opioids, buprenorphine
and/or tramadol. The Respondent also prescribed omeprazole for “stomach upset.”

20. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to
Patient 4, for reasons including:

(a) the Respondent failed to document or take a full history or MSE upon

Patient 4’s return to treatment;

(b) the Respondent failed to appropriately document or assess Patient 4 for

suicide risk;

(c) the Respondent failed to appropriately address Patient 4’s inconsistent

toxicology screens;

(d) the Respondent failed to address his prescribing of CDS (e.g., Vyvanse) in

view of Patient 4’s inconsistent toxicology screen results, or alter his

treatment in response to these findings;

11
(e) the Respondent inappropriately prescribed alprazolam (which he prescribed
on an as-needed basis) in view of Patient 4’s positive toxicology findings;
(f) the Respondent failed to coordinate his care with Patient 4’s primary care
physician, who was apparently prescribing CDS;
(g) the Respondent inappropriately prescribed omeprazole for Patient 4;
(h) the Respondent failed to order pre-treatment or concurrent laboratory
testing when prescribing divalproex (Depakote); and
(i) the Respondent failed to document or engage in patient education with
Patient 4 regarding the risks associated with combinations of
benzodiazepines and opioids.
Patient 5
21. Patient 5 is a 33-year-old female patient who has been in treatment with the
Respondent since February 2015, at which time he diagnosed her with Bipolar II
Disorder; ADHD (predominately inattention); and Anxiety Disorder NOS (not otherwise
specified). The Respondent placed Patient 5 on Vyvanse 70 mg, every morning, with
Adderall 20 mg, every evening for ADHD; Wellbutrin SR 200 mg, BID, for depression;
Lamictal 100 mg daily, for mood stabilization; Xanax 0.5 mg, two times daily, as needed;
and Ambien 10 mg at bedtime, as needed.
22. The Respondent saw Patient 5 on several occasions between May 2018 and
November 2018, when he documented an updated psychiatric assessment. In that
assessment, the Respondent noted that in March 2018, Patient 5 attempted suicide by

overdosing on alprazolam and zolpidem but did not report the incident to him until July

12
2018. Despite this disclosure, the Respondent continued to prescribe these medications
on an as needed basis.

23, In 2018, the Respondent also maintained Patient 5 on Vyvanse, Wellbutrin
SR and Lamictal. In addition, the Respondent treated Patient 5 with psychotherapeutic
concepts and encouraged Patient 5 to further explore issues with her therapist. In
October 2018, the Respondent reported that Patient 5’s mood was better and that she was
on about ten medications for her asthma. In April 2018, the Respondent ordered a
toxicology screen that was positive for cocaine and negative for amphetamine.

24. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to
Patient 5, for reasons including:

(a) the Respondent failed to appropriately document or assess Patient 5 for

suicide risk;

(b) — the Respondent failed to recognize or consider a diagnosis of personality

disorder;

(c) the Respondent failed to appropriately address a toxicology screen that was

positive for cocaine;

(d) the Respondent inappropriately prescribed “as needed” prescriptions for

alprazolam and zolpidem, without determining Patient 5’s actual use of
these medications, and despite her prior attempted suicide through using

these medications;

13
(e)

(f)

(g)
(h)

Gj)

(k)

()

(m)

the Respondent failed to document or discuss with Patient 5 the potential
risks of the various medications he was prescribing or obtain her informed
consent for their use;

the Respondent failed to document or assess Patient 5’s alcohol or drug use
in view of her positive toxicology screen result for an illicit CDS;

the Respondent failed to appropriately substantiate his diagnosis of ADHD;
the Respondent continued to prescribe Vyvanse in view of Patient 5’s
positive toxicology screen for illicit CDS or consider alteration in treatment
in response to that finding;

the Respondent failed to document or inquire into Patient 5’s self-reported
use of multiple asthma medications to ensure no adverse drug interactions;
the Respondent failed to document any counseling of Patient 5 regarding
the use of benzodiazepines with asthma medications;

the Respondent failed to explore other diagnoses to Bipolar IJ Disorder in
view of Patient 5’s psychiatric and behavioral history;

the Respondent failed to document or consider use of an SSRI in view of
Patient 5’s substance abuse history; and

the Respondent failed to appropriately assess and attempt alternative
treatments for Patient 5’s self-report of insomnia, other than prescribing a

sedative-hypnotic.

14
Patient 6

25. Patient 6 is a 44-year-old female patient who initially saw the Respondent
from 2009 but then discontinued treatment in 2011. Patient 6 returned for treatment in
August 2017. Patient 6 had a history of back pain and in the past, had been on various
psychiatric medications. The Respondent diagnosed Patient 6 with MDD, Anxiety
Disorder and ADHD.

26. When Patient 6 returned for treatment in 2017, the Respondent gave her the
same diagnoses as in 2009, At this time, Patient 6’s anxiety was significantly better but
her depression was much worse. The Respondent placed Patient 6 on Mydayis for
ADHD; Trintellix; and Halcion at bedtime. At this time, the Respondent assessed Patient
6 for suicide risk, but did not do so in subsequent treatment notes.

27. After reinitiating treatment, the Respondent altered Patient 6’s
pharmacologic regimen. As of May 2018, the Respondent was prescribing Adderall XR
30 gm, daily; Trintellix 20 mg, daily; Ambien CR 12.5 mg, at bedtime as needed;
Phentermine 37.5 mg, daily as needed for weight gain; Xanax 1 mg, three times per day,
as needed; and Abilify 5 mg, daily. The Respondent completed an updated psychiatric
assessment in August 2018.

28. In October 2018, the Respondent increased Patient 6’s Adderall XR to 40
gm and changed her Ambien to Lunesta due to the Ambien losing its efficacy. In
December 2018, the Respondent noted that Patient 6 was generally doing better, and in
January 2019, the Respondent made no changes to her medication regimen and noted that

Patient 6’s mood was generally good.

15
29,

The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of

quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep

adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to

Patient 6, for reasons including:

(a)

(b)

(d)

()

(f)

(g)

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or assess Patient 6 for
suicide risk in notes subsequent to his 2017 initial assessment;

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or establish his diagnosis
of adult ADHD, or that he considered other diagnoses;

the Respondent inappropriately prescribed Phentermine without performing
periodic weight measurements, other bariatric surveillance or obtaining
appropriate informed consent;

the Respondent failed to order laboratory studies or monitor for neurologic
or metabolic changes when prescribing antipsychotic medications;

the Respondent inappropriately increased Patient 6’s ADHD medications
prior to exploring other causes for Patient 6’s change in symptoms;

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or explore Patient 6’s self-
endorsement of marijuana and how it may have affected Patient 6’s mental
health issues;

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or assess Patient 6 for
alcohol or substance use in view of Patient 6’s self-endorsement of

marijuana use; and

16
(h) the Respondent inadequately managed his prescribing of alprazolam, which
he prescribed on an “as needed” basis. The Respondent did not record
Patient 6’s actual use of the medication.
‘Patient 8

30. Patient 8 is a 34-year-old female patient who has been in treatment with the
Respondent since 2014. Patient 8 developed PTSD after a serious automobile accident in
which she was reportedly unconscious for “a couple of days.” The Respondent
diagnosed Patient 8 with PTSD; MDD; Panic Disorder; and ADHD (predominately
inattention). Patient 8 experienced further emotional distress after a series of individuals
who were close to her died. The Respondent initially treated Patient 8 with Zoloft but
then switched her to Brintellix (now called Trintellix). The Respondent also treated
Patient 8 for panic attacks with alprazolam.

31. Ona visit dated June 20, 2018, the Respondent prescribed the following
medications: Adderall 30 mg, BID; Brintellix 20 mg, daily, Ambien 10 mg, at bedtime
as needed; alprazolam 2 mg, three times per day, as needed; and Provigil 100 mg, daily.
In a note dated August 15, 2018, the Respondent noted that Patient 8 was taking
chemotherapy medication for an abdominal mass but did not note which medications she
was taking. The Respondent maintained Patient 8 on the same medication regimen
through his last recorded note of January 30, 2019.

32. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of

quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep

17
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to

Patient 8, for reasons including:

(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)

(e)
(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

Patient 9

33.

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or assess Patient 8 for
suicide risk;

the Respondent failed to appropriately establish his diagnosis of ADHD;

the Respondent inappropriately maintained Patient 8 on alprazolam,
particularly in view of Patient 8’s self-report of BID Vicodin use;

the Respondent failed to provide appropriate justification for his
prescribing of zolpidem;

the Respondent failed to order psychotherapy to address Patient 8’s anxiety;
the Respondent failed to document or consider the impact his prescribing
regimen was having on Patient 8’s sleep impairment;

the Respondent failed to document or obtain appropriate informed consent
regarding the medications he was prescribing;

the Respondent failed to monitor the frequency of actual usage of CDS
medications he was prescribing (e.g., alprazolam and zolpidem, both of
which were prescribed on an “as needed” basis); and

the Respondent failed to document an updated psychiatric assessment since

2014.

Patient 9 is a 28-year-old female patient who has been in treatment with the

Respondent since 2015. Patient 9 reportedly saw another psychiatrist for two years prior

18
to seeking treatment from the Respondent. Patient 9 reported that she was previously
treated with medications for ADHD since elementary school. Patient 9 also reported
depressive symptoms and panic attacks. The Respondent diagnosed Patient 9 with
ADHD; MDD; and Panic Disorder. The Respondent’s treatment notes do not contain
prior treatment records from other providers.

34. The Respondent placed Patient 9 on a trial of Mydayis but it seriously
increased her anxiety. On May 10, 2018, the Respondent placed Patient 9 back on
Adderall. In the past, the Respondent had switched Patient 9 from Ambien 10 mg to
Klonopin 2 mg, at bedtime, as needed.

35. As of May 10, 2018, the Respondent’s medication regimen for Patient 9
consisted of: Adderall 30 mg, BID; Xanax 2 mg, BID, as needed; Paxil 10 mg, daily; and
Klonopin 2 mg, at bedtime, as needed.

36. Patient 9 reported that she was off her medications for a month in October
2018, at which point the Respondent restarted her medications. The Respondent saw
Patient 9 on four occasions between May 6, 2018 and January 2019.

37. During the course of treatment after May 6, 2018, the Respondent ordered a
toxicology screening that was positive for amphetamine, which he was prescribing, and
negative for benzodiazepine, which he was also prescribing. Prior toxicology screening
also noted this inconsistency as well as a positive finding for marijuana. The Respondent
did not appropriately address these inconsistencies in his treatment notes, or alter his

rescribing regimen for alprazolam, which he prescribed on an “as needed” basis.
o

19
38.

The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of

quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep

adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to

Patient 9, for reasons including:

(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

Patient 10

39.

the Respondent failed to appropriately establish his diagnosis of ADHD;

the Respondent failed to document or address whether Patient 9’s
concentration difficulties were due to ADHD versus anxiety and/or
depression;

the Respondent failed to document, investigate or address Patient 9’s
negative toxicology results with respect to alprazolam, or alter or consider
altering Patient 9’s treatment due to this finding;

the Respondent did not attempt to increase Patient 9’s SSRI and reduce her
benzodiazepine;

the Respondent prescribed an inappropriate initial dosage of Klonopin
when treating Patient 9’s sleep disturbances;

the Respondent did not attempt behavioral treatments for Patient 9’s sleep
disturbances; and

the Respondent failed to document on a periodic basis or assess Patient 9

for suicide risk.

Patient 10 is a 52-year-old female patient who has been in treatment with

the Respondent since 2010. In a summary of care, the Respondent stated that Patient 10

20
On October 16, 2019 Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order.

_ FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A finds:

I. Background/Disciplinary History

I. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland
on January 12, 1999, under License Number D54306. The Respondent's medical license
is active and current through September 30, 2020.

2. The Respondent is not board-certified in any medical specialty. The
Respondent’s self-designated specialty is psychiatry. The Respondent maintains a
medical office at 3731 Branch Avenue, B-309, Temple Hills, Maryland 20748.

3. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent in 2016 after
receiving a complaint from a registered nurse from an alcohol and drug treatment center
who stated that a patient reported to the nurse that: the Respondent was engaging in "vast
overprescribing" of multiple stimulants, benzodiazepines, Suboxone and muscle
relaxants; the Respondent prescribed numerous controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”)
to the patient upon his request; and the patient referred other drug users to the

Respondent's clinic to obtain stimulants and benzodiazepines.
was “very challenging,” and as having undergone numerous medication trials. Patient 10
reportedly demonstrated significant irritability even in the Respondent’s office, such that
office staff scheduled her either at the end or beginning of the day. The Respondent
diagnosed Patient 10 with Bipolar II Disorder and ADHD.

40. The Respondent completed two psychiatric assessments of Patient 10, in
2010 on intake, and one in 2012. Throughout his treatment of Patient 10, the Respondent
made numerous changes to her medication regimen, such as discontinuation of modafinil
and the addition of phentermine on August 14, 2018.

41. As of May 9, 2018, the Respondent had Patient 10 on the following
medications: Cymbalta 120 mg, daily; Abilify 15 mg, daily; Adderall XR 60 mg, every
morning; Mydayis 50 mg, every morning; Wellbutrin XL 300 mg, daily; Topamax 25
mg, BID; Ambien 10 mg, at bedtime, as needed; Phentermine 37.5 mg, daily; Latuda 60
mg, at bedtime; Cyproheptadine 4 mg, daily, as needed. The Respondent streamlined
Patient 10’s medication regimen on August 4, 2018, as follows: Cymbalta 120 mg, daily;
Abilify 15 mg, daily; Adderall XR 60 mg, every morning; Mydayis 50 mg, every
morning; Ambien 10 mg, at bedtime; and Cyproheptadine 4 mg, daily, as needed.

42. | The Respondent’s chart for Patient 10 contains extensive notes from Patient
10’s primary care provider. The primary care provider noted in a progress note dated
July 24, 2018, that Patient 10 was taking two caffeine pills BID, which the primary care
physician recommended Patient 10 discontinue taking. The Respondent did not address
this in his treatment notes, despite prescribing high doses of stimulants (Mydayis 50 mg,

Adderall XR 60 mg) and a sleep medication.

21
43.

The Respondent also has a note from a cardiologist from May 11, 2018,

where the cardiologist discontinued Patient 10’s Adderall XR 30 mg BID. The

Respondent’s notes stated that Patient 10 was continuing to take both Adderall and

Mydayis after this visit, however. Although the Respondent discussed Patient 10’s use of

stimulants, he did not follow the cardiologist’s recommendation.

44.

The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of

quality. medical care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep

adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to

Patient 10, for reasons including:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(¢)

(f)

the Respondent failed to document or consider a diagnosis of personality
disorder;

the Respondent maintained Patient 10 on an excessive dosage of Cymbalta,
with no further benefit warranting its continuation at this dosage;

the Respondent continued Patient 10 on redundant stimulants after Patient
10’s cardiologist discontinued her Adderall;

the Respondent did not document or address Patient 10’s use of caffeine
pills;

the Respondent maintained Patient 10 on excessive doses of stimulants
after Patient 10 reported palpitations to her cardiologist, who recommended
discontinuation of Adderall;

the Respondent did not document or undertake metabolic monitoring when

prescribing an antipsychotic (Abilify); and

22
(g) the Respondent failed to document or undertake a periodic assessment of
suicide risk.

Supplemental response

45. The Respondent submitted a written supplemental response to the Board,
dated May 24, 2019, in which he addressed the peer reviewers’ findings. The
Respondent stated that he was “dismayed by [his] performance,” but was “determined to
have a practice that is commensurate with the Board’s expectations.” The Respondent
acknowledged some of the deficiencies the reviewers noted, such as: his failure to obtain
laboratory testing for some of the psychotropic medications that he routinely prescribes,
and his failure to undertake other forms of monitoring when prescribing these
medications; the lack of comprehensiveness of his MSEs; and his failure to specifically
note a suicide assessment in his treatment notes. The Respondent acknowledged that it
would be beneficial for him to consult with a supervisor to address these deficiencies.
The Respondent stated, “I need to gain greater familiarity with treatment guidelines for
the various disorders I treat.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent's actions constitute a violation of the following provisions of the Act
under Health Occ. § 14-404(a): (22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined
by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care
performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this

State; and (40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer

23
review. Additionally, the Respondent's actions constitute a violation of Conditions Nos,
Four (4), Six (6) and Seven (7) of the Consent Order, dated January 5, 2018.
ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the REPRIMAND, imposed by the January 5, 2018 Consent
Order remains in effect; and it is further

ORDERED that the Probation and probationary terms and conditions of the
January 5, 2018 Consent Order are TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED. The suspension goes into effect 60 days from the date of execution of
this Order, to give Respondent time to transition his patients to other providers;? and it is
further

ORDERED that during the period of suspension, Respondent shall establish and
implement a procedure by which Respondent’s patients may obtain their medical records

without undue burden and notify all patients of that procedure; and it is further

? If Respondents license expires during the period of suspension, and Respondent fails
to renew his license:

(i) the failure to renew the license does not remove the suspension from the
Respondent’s disciplinary record during the period of non-renewal,

(ii) the time of suspension will be tolled until Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in this state is reinstated or until Respondent again possesses a license;

(iii) the condition precedent to terminating a suspension is tolled until Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in this State is reinstated or Respondent again
possesses a license.

24
ORDERED that during the period of suspension, Respondent shall not:
(1) practice medicine;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out
to the public as a current provider of medical services;

(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care
provider;

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other
medical care facility in the state;

(5) dispense medications; or

(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is
further

ORDERED that during the period of suspension Respondent shall enroll in and
undergo and complete a comprehensive evaluation by the Clinical Competence
Assessment Program administered by the Center for Personalized Education for
Professionals (“CPEP”); and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with the
assessment process established by CPEP, and shall fully participate and comply with all
evaluations and screenings as directed by CPEP; and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent shall enroll in, and fully and timely cooperate and
comply with any educational intervention recommended by CPEP; and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent’s failure to comply with any the assessment process
established by CPEP or any educational intervention recommended by CPEP, constitutes
a violation of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that following the CPEP evaluation, CPEP shall produce written

reports to Panel A and Respondent detailing the results of the evaluations and its

25
recommendation about whether Respondent’s performance was satisfactory or
unsatisfactory, and whether he is clinically competent and safe to return to practice of
medicine; and it is further

ORDERED that after Panel A’s receipt of the written reports, Respondent may
petition Panel A to terminate his suspension. Disciplinary Panel A shall consider
Respondent’s disciplinary history and the CPEP report and determine whether
Respondent is clinically competent and safe to return to the practice of medicine. If the
Panel determines that Respondent is safe to practice, the Panel may terminate his
Suspension and may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on
Respondent’s return to practice, including any educational intervention recommended by
CPEP, probation, a requirement to work in a structured environment that includes
supervision, a peer supervisor, chart review, peer review, and any other appropriate terms
and conditions; and it is further

ORDERED that if Disciplinary Panel A determines that Respondent is not safe to
return to the practice of medicine based on the CPEP report, Disciplinary Panel A may
decline to terminate the suspension and may further require completion of any
educational intervention recommended by CPEP. Upon completion of the educational
intervention, Respondent may again apply for termination of his suspension under the
same conditions described above; and it is further

ORDERED that if the CPEP evaluation, at any point, indicates that Respondent is

incapable of practicing medicine safely and unlikely to improve, Disciplinary Panel A

26
may revoke Respondent’s license in accordance with the procedures required by the
Administrative Procedures Act; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Respondent allegedly fails to undergo and complete a
comprehensive evaluation by the Clinical Competence Assessment program administered
by CPEP or fails to complete any educational intervention recommended by CPEP,
Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of
the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before the Board disciplinary panel; and
it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board disciplinary panel
determines that Respondent has failed to comply with these requirements of this Order,
the Board disciplinary panel may reprimand Respondent, place Respondent on probation
with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in Maryland. The Board disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or
more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Respondent; and
it is further

ORDERED that Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.

§§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. §§ 4-333(b)(6) (2014 & Supp. 2018).

27
vafuf20z0 Signature on File
Date

Christine A. Farrélly, Executive ae
Maryland State Board hysician
CONSENT

I, Reginald Biggs, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right
to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and
to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those
procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the
jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce

this Consent Order.

28
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms.

Signature on File
47-3068
Date Reginald Biggs, M.D.

NOTARY
STATE OF Lary A ad .t
CITY/COUNTY OF Rote C%b S
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this “| __ day of Fb 26%, before me,
a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Reginald
Biggs, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order

was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

My Commission expires: /

 

29
4. As part of its investigation, the Board ordered a practice review, which
determined that the Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical and surgical care.

5. After reviewing these findings, Panel A, on September 14, 2017, issued
disciplinary charges against the Respondent under Case Number 2217-0001A.

6. The Respondent resolved Panel A’s charges by entering into the Consent
Order, dated January 5, 2018, in which Panel A found as a matter of law that the
Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer
review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient
surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this State, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(22).

7. Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A reprimanded the Respondent and
placed him on probation for a minimum period of one year, subject to a series of
probationary conditions, including the following:

Condition No. Four (4)

The Respondent shall implement the following practice changes:

(a) The Respondent’s patient charts shall include a section for the
performance of a mental status examination. The Respondent
shall perform a mental status examination on each patient
office visit;

(b) | The Respondent’s progress notes shall include a section for
assessment of current medications and the rationale for
maintenance or adjustment of medications. The Respondent
shall review medications at each patient office visit and shall

document his rationale for maintenance or adjustment of
medications; and
(c) The Respondent shall perform complete psychiatric
assessments annually for all patients.

Condition No. Six (6)

During the probationary period, the Respondent is subject to a chart

and/or peer review conducted by the Board or Board disciplinary

panel or its agents. An unsatisfactory chart and/or peer review will

constitute a violation of probation[.]

Condition No. Seven (7)
The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice
Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II § 14-101 — § 14-702, and all
laws and regulations governing the practice of medicine in
Maryland.
8. Prior to the signing of this Consent Order, the Respondent remained on
probation with the Board.
IL. Current Findings
9. Pursuant to Condition No. Six (6) of the Consent Order, the Board obtained
ten patient records and supporting materials from the Respondent and ordered a practice
review. The practice review was performed by two physicians who are board-certified in
psychiatry and neurology. The reviewers evaluated the treatment the Respondent
provided to patients after May 6, 2018.
10. The peer reviewers submitted their findings in or around May 2019. The

peer reviewers jointly concluded that in eight of the ten cases reviewed ("Patients 2-6 and

8-10"),1 the Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality
medical care; and that in nine of the ten cases reviewed (“Patients 1-6 and 8-10), the
Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records.
11. Examples of these deficiencies are set forth in the following patient
summaries.
Patient 1
12. Patient 1 is an 18-year-old male patient who has been in treatment with the
Respondent since 2016 (when the patient was 16 years old). Patient 1 was previously in
treatment with another psychiatrist for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (“ADHD”).
The Respondent diagnosed Patient 1 with ADHD and Adjustment Disorder with anxiety,
The Respondent maintained Patient 1 on various ADHD medications including Vyvanse
and Ritalin. The Respondent saw Patient 1 on nine occasions between May 6, 2018 and
February 2019.
13. The Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to Patient 1, for reasons including:
(a) The Respondent failed to document that he performed a complete
psychiatric assessment annually;
(b) the Respondent’s mental status examination (“MSE”) is too brief and fails
to document an adequate assessment of safety including suicidal and

homicidal ideation;

1 For confidentiality purposes, the names of patients have not been identified in this document. The
Respondent is aware of the identity of all patients referenced herein.
(c) the Respondent’s progress notes contain inadequate documentation
regarding his formulation of his ADHD diagnosis;

(d) the Respondent failed to document adequate information about possible
alcohol or substance abuse, given Patient 1’s endorsement of marijuana on
self-questionnaire and family history of substance abuse;

(e) the Respondent’s treatment records fail to contain documentation of rating
scales/collateral history from teachers, given that Patient 1 was in a
specialized school during part of his treatment; and

(f) the Respondent failed to document Patient 1’s other non-psychiatric
medications, if any, to ensure no adverse drug interactions.

Patient 2

14. Patient 2 is a 36-year-old male patient who has been in treatment with the
Respondent since 2013. The Respondent documented an updated psychiatric assessment
in November 2018 where he noted that Patient 2 had a long history of mood disorder,
predominately depression but with a history of mood swings when younger; anxiety with
panic attacks; and ADHD. The Respondent provided medication management that
included selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (“SSRIs”); stimulants; and
benzodiazepines. The Respondent saw Patient 2 on six occasions between May 6, 2018
and February 2019.

15. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of

quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to

Patient 2, for reasons including:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

G)

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or assess Patient 2 for
suicide risk in his treatment notes;

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or establish his diagnosis
of Bipolar II Disorder;

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or establish his diagnosis
of Panic Disorder;

the Respondent failed to appropriately document or establish his diagnosis
of ADHD;

the Respondent failed to prescribe a mood stabilizer or atypical
antipsychotic;

the Respondent prescribed high dosages of benzodiazepines (alprazolam 2
mg, three times per day, as needed), without appropriate documentation or
assessment;

the Respondent failed to address positive toxicology findings for
methadone, a drug the Respondent was not prescribing;

the Respondent failed to alter or consider alteration of use of alprazolam in
view of Patient 2’s positive toxicology findings for opioids;

the Respondent failed to document or perform a substance abuse evaluation
in view of positive toxicology findings; and

the Respondent failed to maintain a medication log.
Patient 3

16. Patient 3 is a 63-year-old female patient who has been in treatment with the
Respondent since 2012. The Respondent had diagnosed Patient 3 with major depression
and post traumatic stress disorder (“PTSD”). The Respondent recorded an updated
psychiatric assessment in November 2018. The Respondent changed Patient 3’s
diagnoses to Bipolar II Disorder, PTSD, ADHD and anxiety disorder. The Respondent
prescribed three CDS (Vyvanse, alprazolam, zolpidem) and several prescription-only
medications, including fluoxetine, bupropion, naltrexone and aripiprazole. The
Respondent saw Patient 3 on six occasions between May 6, 2018 and February 2019,
During the course of treatment, the Respondent ordered toxicology screenings for Patient
3 that were positive for cocaine on multiple occasions during 2018-2019.

17. The Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality medical care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep
adequate medical records, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), with respect to
Patient 3, for reasons including:

(a) the Respondent failed to appropriately document or establish his diagnosis

of ADHD;

(b) the Respondent failed to appropriately document or establish his diagnosis

of PTSD;

(c) the Respondent failed to appropriately document or assess Patient 3 for

suicide risk in his ongoing medication management notes;
(d) the Respondent documented progress notes that referenced treatment of
another family member;
(e) the Respondent failed to appropriately address Patient 3’s positive
toxicology screenings for cocaine;
(f) the Respondent failed to document or consider alteration in treatment with
respect to prescribing CDS (Vyvanse, alprazolam, zolpidem) in view of
Patient 3’s multiple positive toxicology screening findings for illicit CDS;
(g) the Respondent inappropriately prescribed alprazolam on an as needed
basis; and
(h) the Respondent failed to appropriately address Patient 3’s complaints of
insomnia,
Patient 4
18. Patient 4 is a 37-year-old male patient who has been in treatment with the
Respondent since September 2016. The Respondent originally diagnosed Patient 4 with
Major Depressive Disorder (“MDD”) (moderate severity, single episode); Panic Disorder
(without agoraphobia); and ADHD (predominately inattention), At that time, the
Respondent restarted Patient 4 on Wellbutrin, which the patient reported was effective in
the past, along with Klonopin 2 mg, twice per day (“BID”); and Vyvanse 60 mg, every
morning. Patient 4 continued to see the Respondent until February 2017, when he left
treatment for about one year. Patient 4 returned for treatment in February 2018.
19. When Patient 4 did return for treatment, the Respondent did not document a

new history but continued to record with a progress note. The Respondent did not take a

10
