IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JESUS A. BURBANO, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D55094 * Case Number: 2218-0282A
* * * * * * * & x * * %
CONSENT ORDER

PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
On January 3, 2019, Disciplinary Panel A ("Panel A") of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged JESUS A. BURBANO, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D55094, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. ("Health Occ.") §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017
Supp.).
Specifically, Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following
provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404:
(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the

licensee:

(3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine;

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; [and]
(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled

dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal
Law Article[.]
On April 10, 2019, a hearing was held before Panel B, sitting as a Disciplinary
Committee for Case Resolution. As a result of negotiations occurring before Panel A,
the Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of
Procedural Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and
Notary.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A makes the following Findings of Fact:

1 BACKGROUND

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland
on July 23,1999, under License Number D55094. The Respondent’s latest license was
given the expiration date of June 30, 2020.

2. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent operated a medical
practice named JB Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine (the “Practice”), which is located
at 8615 Ramsey Avenue, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in pediatric medicine.

4. On January 2, 2019, Panel A issued an Order for Summary Suspension of
License to Practice Medicine, in which it summarily suspended the Respondent’s
Maryland medical license. Panel A took such action pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively

requires emergency action.
jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce
this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understands the language

and meaning of its terms. Sign ature of File
04) 22/14

Date esus AX. Burbano, M.D. 7
Respondent

Read and approved:

Robert A. Wells, Esquire
Counsel for Dr. Burbano

11
NOTARY

STATE OF Ma VN awd
CITY/COUNTY OF M on f gual

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2" fe of As wn | 2019, before
me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Jesus A.
Burbano, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

 

Notary Public

My Commission expires: o4| 2 } 2etl

  
 
 
 

 
  
  

iy 08etey
ee SI 7 o89,.
so

ig OUR Oh

12
Il. THE COMPLAINT

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a
complaint, dated June 15, 2018, from a physician assistant (the “Complainant”)! who
practiced at an urgent care facility (the “Facility”) in the District of Columbia. The
Complainant reported that on June 15, 2018, the Respondent entered the Facility at 11:00
a.m. and slept in the Facility’s waiting room until 1:00 p.m., when medical assistants
there tried to rouse him, without success. The medical assistants asked the Complainant
to try to wake up the Respondent. The Complainant administered a sternal rub to the
Respondent, who continued snoring through the procedure. The Complainant shook the
Respondent, who briefly woke up. The Complainant informed the Respondent that he
had to complete paperwork and be seen, or the Facility might be forced to transport him
to the emergency room for further evaluation. The Respondent agreed but then fell
asleep again briefly. The Complainant was forced to wake up the Respondent again.

6. The Complainant stated that she suspected that the Respondent might be
“under the influence.” Upon further inquiry, she determined that the Respondent had
self-prescribed several benzodiazepine medications (benzodiazepines are a Schedule IV
controlled dangerous substance).

7. The Complainant questioned the Respondent further, who claimed that he

had not used benzodiazepines that day. The Complainant stated that the Respondent then

' For confidentiality reasons, the names/identities of the Complainant, medical facilities and other
individuals will not be disclosed in this document. The Respondent is aware of the identity of all
individuals and entities referenced herein.
refused to discuss anything further about his benzodiazepine use and refused to undergo

blood tests.
8. Along with her complaint, the Complainant provided the information she
obtained to the Board.

Ill. SUBSEQUENT BOARD INVESTIGATION AND FINDINGS

9. By letter dated August 14, 2018, the Board requested that the Respondent
provide a response to the above complaint.

10. The Respondent provided a written response to the Board in a letter dated
August 24, 2018. The Respondent acknowledged that since 2004, several physicians had
prescribed benzodiazepines for him to treat medical conditions and he did “on a few
occasions obtain benzodiazepines pursuant to [his] own prescription.” The Respondent
claimed that his objectivity when self-prescribing was not compromised because he was
using this medication for nearly fifteen years and only self-prescribed in “emergency”
situations when he was not able to obtain prescriptions from his physicians. The
Respondent admitted that he “did not create a separate medical record for [himself]
related to those [self-prescribing] instances.” The Respondent asserted that his self-
prescribing of controlled substances was not inconsistent with American Medical
Association guidelines on self-prescribing. The Respondent further stated that he does
“not suffer from any addictions or engage in the habitual use of any controlled dangerous
substance, and am not otherwise habitually intoxicated.”

11. Pursuant to its investigation, the Board obtained the Respondent’s medical

records from two physicians whom the Respondent identified as his treating physicians.
12. The Board also issued a subpoena to the Prescription Drug Monitoring
Program (“PDMP”), reviewed the Respondent’s medication profiles from various area
pharmacies, and obtained his pharmacy records and prescriptions for controlled
dangerous substances for the period beginning on January 1, 2016 until July 11, 2018.
The information obtained revealed that since 2008, in addition to medications prescribed
by his treating providers, the Respondent self-prescribed benzodiazepines on numerous
occasions, normally authorizing four refills per new prescription written. Also, the two
physicians the Respondent employed at the Practice (Physician A and Physician B,
respectively) intermittently wrote benzodiazepine prescriptions for him. Physician A
prescribed for the Respondent from approximately mid-2007 to early-2016 while
Physician B prescribed for the Respondent from approximately mid-2012 to mid-2014.
The Respondent did not maintain a medical record while self-prescribing nor did the
Practice maintain medical records for the prescribing that practitioners there provided for
him.

13. After receiving this information, the Board, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-
402(a),? referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an
evaluation. The Program directed him to undergo a neuropsychological evaluation.

14. On or about December 5, 2018, the Board received a comprehensive

evaluation report involving the Respondent.> The evaluator stated that the Respondent’s

2 Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in
investigation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the
Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative may direct, any
physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination.
“current cognitive profile gives rise to significant concerns about his ability to practice at
the level expected for a physician.” The evaluator concluded that for the reasons stated in
his report, the Respondent “should not practice medicine at this time.”
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board finds
that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. §§
14-404(a): (3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (4) Is
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; and (8) Is addicted to, or habitually
abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the
Criminal Law Article.

ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension, dated January 2, 2019, is
TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland is SUSPENDED? for a minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR from the date of
the Order for Summary Suspension dated January 2, 2019, and until the Maryland
Physician Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) finds and notifies the Board that the

Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine; and it is further

 

3 In order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the comprehensive report have not been disclosed in
this document. The report has been disclosed to the Respondent.

4 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions
will be tolled.
ORDERED that during the period of suspension, the Respondent shall comply
with the following terms and conditions of suspension:

(1) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) Within FIVE (5) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of
this Consent Order, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to
schedule an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within FIFTEEN (15) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective
date of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall enter into a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) | The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply
with all MPRP referrals, rules, and requirements, including,
but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation
Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or
condition of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a violation
of this Consent Order;

(ec) The Respondent shall sign and update the written
release/consent forms requested by the Board and MPRP,
including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make
verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize
the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. A failure to, or withdrawal
of, consent, is a violation of this Consent Order;

(f) The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to
and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent
and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. A failure to, or withdrawal of, consent, is a violation
of this Consent Order.

(2) During the period of suspension, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold
himself out to the public as a current provider of medical
services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name
or provider number by any health care practice or any other
licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital
or other medical care facility in the state;

(e) dispense medications;

(g) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

(3) The Respondent shall establish and implement a procedure by which the
Respondent’s patients may obtain their medical records without undue
burden and notify all patients of that procedure; and

(4) The Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further :

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Consent
Order has passed and the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all the
terms and conditions for the suspension, the Respondent may submit a written petition to
the disciplinary panel requesting termination of suspension. The Respondent may be
required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. If
the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the

practice of medicine, the suspension may be terminated through an order of the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it
deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but not limited to,
probation; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before
an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing
before the Board or a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or a disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this
Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place
the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke
the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or a disciplinary
panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling

the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2), and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6) (2014 & Supp.

2018).

os [04/2019 (Nai tins J -
Date Christine A. Farrelly

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

CONSENT

I, Jesus A. Burbano, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document. By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and
all its terms and conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain
any request for amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive these rights and have elected to sign this
Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right
to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on their behalf, and
to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those

procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the

10
