ME dst

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JESUS A. BURBANO, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D55094 * Case Number: 7719-0108
* x * * * x * * * x x * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On May 9, 2019, Jesus A. Burbano, M.D. and Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (“Panel A”) entered into a Consent Order wherein Dr. Burbano’s license to
practice medicine was suspended for a minimum of one year and Dr. Burbano agreed to enroll in
the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and comply with all of MPRP’s
requirements and recommendations (attached as Exhibit 1). On November 1, 2019, Panel A
issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause, charging Dr. Burbano with
violating condition 1 of the May 9, 2019 Consent Order, which required Dr. Burbano to comply
with requirements of MPRP. On December 4, 2019, Panel A held a show cause hearing where
Dr. Burbano had the opportunity to argue why his license should not be subject to further
discipline.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Background

The Board received a complaint, dated June 15, 2018, from a physician assistant
(“Complainant”) who worked at an urgent care center.’ The Complainant reported that Dr.
Burbano entered the urgent care center and acted in a manner, which caused the complainant to
believe that Dr. Burbano might have been “under the influence.” The Board opened an

investigation, which included referring Dr. Burbano for an evaluation pursuant to Health

"In order to protect confidentiality, the name of the Complainant, health care facilities or Board-approved Programs
will not be disclosed in this document.
 

Occupations Article § 14-402(a). The evaluator concluded that Dr. Burbano “should not

practice medicine at this time.”

On January 3, 2019, Panel A charged Dr. Burbano with violating the following
provisions of the Medical Practice Act under Health Occ. § 14-404(a): (3) Is guilty of: (i)
Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent; and (8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance as defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article.4 On May 9, 2019, Dr. Burbano
entered into a Consent Order with Panel A to resolve the charges against him.

May 9, 2019 Consent Order

In the Consent Order, Panel A found that Dr. Burbano was guilty of unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); is
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4);
and is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(8).

Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A terminated the January 2, 2019 Order for
Summary Suspension and suspended Dr. Burbano’s Maryland medical license for a minimum
period of one year, commencing on January 2, 2019, the date of the summary suspension. Panel

A ordered Dr, Burbano to enroll in MPRP, as follows:

? Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: “In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in
investigation against a licensed physician . . . the Board on its own initiative may direct, the licensed physician .. . to
submit to an appropriate examination.”

> In order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the evaluation have not been disclosed in this document. Dr.

Burbano has been provided with a copy of the evaluation.

“ On January 2, 2019, prior to the issuance of charges, Panel A issued an Order for Summary Suspension of License
to Practice Medicine, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2), concluding that the public health,
safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action. A post-deprivation hearing was conducted on January 16,
2019 and, after the hearing, Panel A continued the summary suspension order.

2

spe tee
merase 38201

Il THE COMPLAINT

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a
complaint, dated June 15, 2018, from a physician assistant (the “Complainant”)! who
practiced at an urgent care facility (the “Facility”) in the District of Columbia. The
Complainant reported that on June 15, 2018, the Respondent entered the Facility at 11:00
a.m. and slept in the Facility’s waiting room until 1:00 p.m., when medical assistants
there tried to rouse him, without success. The medical assistants asked the Complainant
to try to wake up the Respondent. The Complainant administered a sternal rub to the
Respondent, who continued snoring through the procedure. The Complainant shook the

Respondent, who briefly woke up. The Complainant informed the Respondent that he

had to complete paperwork and be seen, or the Facility might be forced to transport him

to the emergency room for further evaluation. The Respondent agreed but then fell
asleep again briefly. The Complainant was forced to wake up the Respondent again.

6. The Complainant stated that she suspected that the Respondent might be
“under the influence.” Upon further.inquiry, she determined that the Respondent had
self-prescribed several benzodiazepine medications (benzodiazepines are a Schedule [V
controlled dangerous substance).

7. The Complainant questioned the Respondent further, who claimed that he

had not used benzodiazepines that day. The Complainant stated that the Respondent then

' For confidentiality reasons, the names/identities of the Complainant, medical facilities and other
individuals will not be disclosed in this document. The Respondent is aware of the identity of all
individuals and entities referenced herein.

vette peeeqeoee
 

refused to discuss anything further about his benzodiazepine use and refused to undergo

blood tests.
8. Along with her complaint, the Complainant provided the information she
obtained to the Board.

I. SUBSEQUENT BOARD INVESTIGATION AND FINDINGS

9. By letter dated August 14, 2018, the Board requested that the Respondent
provide a response to the above complaint.

10. | The Respondent provided a written response to the Board in a letter dated
August 24, 2018. The Respondent acknowledged that since 2004, several physicians had
prescribed benzodiazepines for him to treat medical conditions and he did “on a few
occasions obtain benzodiazepines pursuant to [his] own prescription.” The Respondent
claimed that his objectivity when self-prescribing was not compromised because he was
using this medication for nearly fifteen years and only self-prescribed in “emergency”
situations when he was not able to obtain prescriptions from his physicians. The
Respondent admitted that he “did not create a separate medical record for [himself]
related to those [self-prescribing] instances.” The Respondent asserted that his self
prescribing of controlled substances was not inconsistent with American Medical
Association guidelines on self-prescribing. The Respondent further stated that he does
“not suffer from any addictions or engage in the habitual use of any controlled dangerous
substance, and am not otherwise habitually intoxicated.”

11. Pursuant to its investigation, the Board obtained the Respondent’s medical

records from two physicians whom the Respondent identified as his treating physicians.
mates ber. Bote

12. The Board also issued a subpoena to the Prescription Drug Monitoring

_ Program (“PDMP”), reviewed the Respondent’s medication profiles from various area

pharmacies, and obtained his pharmacy records and prescriptions for controlled
dangerous substances for the period beginning on January 1, 2016 until July 11, 2018.
The information obtained revealed that since 2008, in addition to medications prescribed
by his treating providers, the Respondent self-prescribed benzodiazepines on numerous
occasions, normally authorizing four refills per new prescription written. Also, the two
physicians the Respondent employed at the Practice (Physician A and Physician B,
respectively) intermittently wrote benzodiazepine prescriptions for him. Physician A
prescribed for the Respondent from approximately mid-2007 to early-2016 while |
Physician B prescribed for the Respondent from approximately mid-2012 to mid-2014.
The Respondent did not maintain a medical record while self-prescribing nor did the
Practice maintain medical records for the prescribing that practitioners there provided for
him.

13. After receiving this information, the Board, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-
402(a),? referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an
evaluation. The Program directed him to undergo a neuropsychological evaluation.

14. On or about December 5, 2018, the Board received a comprehensive

evaluation report involving the Respondent.> The evaluator stated that the Respondent’s

2 Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in
investigation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the
Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative may direct, any
physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination.

 
 

“current cognitive profile gives rise to significant concerns about his ability to practice at
the level expected for a physician.” The evaluator concluded that for the reasons stated in
his report, the Respondent “should not practice medicine at this time.”
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board finds
that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. §§
14-404(a): (3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (4) Is
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; and (8) Is addicted to, or habitually
abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the
Criminal Law Article.

ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension, dated January 2, 2019, is
TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland is SUSPENDED‘ for a minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR from the date of
the Order for Summary Suspension dated January 2, 2019, and until the Maryland
Physician Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) finds and notifies the Board that the

Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine; and it is further

 

3 In order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the comprehensive report have not been disclosed in
this document. The report has been disclosed to the Respondent.

4 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions
will be tolled.
ORDERED that during the period of suspension, the Respondent shall comply
with the following terms and conditions of suspension:

(1) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) Within FIVE (5) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of
this Consent Order, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to
schedule an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within FIFTEEN (15) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective
date of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall enter into a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) - The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply
with all MPRP referrals, rules, and requirements, including,
but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation
Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or
condition of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a violation
of this Consent Order;

(ec) The Respondent shall sign and update the written
release/consent forms requested by the Board and MPRP,
including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make
verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize
the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. A failure to, or withdrawal
of, consent, is a violation of this Consent Order;

(f) | The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to
and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent
and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
 

records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. A failure to, or withdrawal of, consent, is a violation
of this Consent Order.

(2) During the period of suspension, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine; |

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold
himself out to the public as a current provider of medical
services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name
or provider number by any health care practice or any other
licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital
or other medical care facility in the state;

(e) dispense medications;

(g). perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

(3) The Respondent shal! establish and implement a procedure by which the
Respondent’s patients may obtain their medical records without undue
burden and notify all patients of that procedure; and

(4) | The Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Consent
Order has passed and the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all the
terms and conditions for the suspension, the Respondent may submit a written petition to
the disciplinary panel requesting termination of suspension. The Respondent may be
required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. If
the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the

practice of medicine, the. suspension may be terminated through an order of the
ROPE:-EST SR eiky

disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it
deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but not limited to,
probation; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before
an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing
before the Board or a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or a disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this
Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place
the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke
the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or a disciplinary
panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling

the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
Abie. Mid si

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2), and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6) (2014 & Supp.

 

2018).
Signature On File
os [04/2014 sna |
Date Christine A. Farrell
“ Executive Director 7 U) (/

Maryland State Board of Physicians
CONSENT

I, Jesus A. Burbano, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document. By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and
all its terms and conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain
any request for amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive these rights and have elected to sign this
Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right
to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on their behalf, and
to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those

procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the

10
CR ed

jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce
this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. | waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understands the language

and meaning of its terms. Signature of File

04] 22/14 _
Date esusX- Burbano, M.D. ”
Respondent

Read and approved:

EZ ) LE

aoa

Robert A. Wells, Esquire
Counsel for Dr. Burbano
 

NOTARY

STATE OF Mav tand

CITY/COUNTY OF M16e

    

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 22" “day of A en \ 2019, before
me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Jesus A.
Burbano, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

  
 
   

Notary Public

My Commission expires: _ oa] 2g] Qo

        

0 22
OW ieee od
*reniss a
———

(a) Within FIVE (5) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for
enrollment;

(b) Within FIFTEEN (15) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this
Consent Order, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply

with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;
[and]

(d) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall
constitute a violation of this Consent Order[.]

The Consent Order also included the following:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any

term or condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and

" an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the

hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of

Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the

Respondent shall’ be given a show cause hearing before the Board or a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or a
disciplinary panel determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any
term or condition of this Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel may
reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate
terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland. The Board or a disciplinary panel may, in addition to one
or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the
Respondent]

Dr, Burbano signed the Consent Order, agreeing to be bound by the Consent Order and
all of its terms and conditions.
Violation of May 9, 2019 Consent Order

In accordance with the Consent Order, Dr. Burbano enrolled in MPRP and entered a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. On

3
am AS

August 29, 2019, MPRP reported to the Board that Dr. Burbano admitted to violating his
Rehabilitation Agreement. By letter, dated August 30, 2019, the Board requested that Dr.
Burbano provide a response to the allegation that he violated his Rehabilitation Agreement. By
letter to the Board, dated September 6, 2019, Dr. Burbano admitted that he violated his
Rehabilitation Agreement on two occasions.

Show Cause Hearing

On November 1, 2019, Panel A issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show
Cause, alleging a violation of the May 9, 2019 Consent Order for failing to comply with his
Rehabilitation Agreement. On December 4, 2019, Dr. Burbano appeared at a show cause
hearing before Panel A and was represented by counsel.

During the hearing, Dr. Burbano admitted that he violated the Consent Order but asked
the Panel not to extend his suspension and, instead, to impose a reprimand, or in the alternative,
to extend the suspension for a period not to exceed 90 days. In response, the Administrative
Prosecutor argued that the two violations of the Rehabilitation Agreement were undisputed and
recommended that the period of suspension be extended for a minimum of one year given the
public safety concerns at issue.

The Panel finds that, due to the nature of the violations, an additional period of
suspension for a minimum of six months is necessary under the circumstances to ensure the
safety and protection of the public.

CONCLUSION OF LAW
Panel A finds that Dr. Burbano violated the condition of the May 9, 2019 Consent Order

that required him to comply with the terms and conditions of his Rehabilitation Agreement with

MPRP.

cep tepp pecqeces
(MBE EB + 2923

ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the May 9, 2019 Consent Order is extended
for a minimum of six months from the effective date of this Order,” During the suspension, Dr.
Burbano shall comply with the following terms and conditions of suspension:

(a) Dr. Burbano shall continue his enrollment in MPRP;

(b) Dr. Burbano shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(c) Dr. Burbano shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order, Dr.
Burbano shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(d) Dr. Burbano shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Burbano’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal
and written information concerning Dr. Burbano and to ensure that MPRP is
authorized to receive the medical records of Dr, Burbano, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.
Dr, Burbano shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) Dr. Burbano’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions

including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or

Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is

further

ORDERED that Dr. Burbano shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it
is further

ORDERED that, after Dr. Burbano has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms
and conditions of the suspension, the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Order has -

passed, and MPRP finds and notifies the Board that Dr. Burbano is safe to return to the practice

> If Dr, Burbano’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be tolled.

5
s4BS HE 2 1s

of medicine, Dr. Burbano may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to request
termination of the suspension. After consideration of the petition, the suspension may be
terminated through an. order of the disciplinary panel. Dr. Burbano may be required to appear
before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel
determines that it is safe: for Dr. Burbano to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension
will be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may
impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on Dr. Burbano’s return to practice,
including, but not limited to, probation and/or continuation of Dr, Burbano’s enrollment in
MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for Dr. Burbano to return to the
practice of medicine, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel
for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose
any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Burbano allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Dr. Burbano shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the
disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be
before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is
no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Burbano shall be given a show cause hearing before
a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Dr. Burbano has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr, Burbano, place Dr. Burbano on probation with appropriate

terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke Dr. Burbano’s

ages pee te
license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more
of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on Dr. Burbano; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr, Burbano is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further .

ORDERED that the effective date of the Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Eseentive Director of the Board. The Executive Director signs the Order on behalf of the
disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6). _

ofoipoco | Signature On File
Date

Christine A. Farfelly, E tive Dire:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Exhibit 1
cainetthiatidnaiiadh

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JESUS A. BURBANO, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D55094 * Case Number: 2218-0282A
* x * * * * * * * x * *
CONSENT ORDER

PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
On January 3, 2019, Disciplinary Panel A ("Panel A") of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged JESUS A. BURBANO, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D55094, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. ("Health Occ.") §§ 14-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017
Supp.).
Specifically, Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following
provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404:
(a) Jn general. -- Subjéct to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the

licensee:

(3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine;

(4) _ Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; [and]
(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled

dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal
Law Article[.]
 

On April 10, 2019, a hearing was held before Panel B, sitting as a Disciplinary
Committee for Case Resolution. As a result of negotiations occurring before Panel A,
the Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of
Procedural Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, Consent and
Notary.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A makes the following Findings of Fact:

L BACKGROUND

1, The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland
on July 23,1999, under License Number D55094. The Respondent’s latest license was
given the expiration date of June 30, 2020.

2. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent operated a medical
practice named JB Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine (the “Practice’”), which is located
at 8615 Ramsey Avenue, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in pediatric medicine.

4. On January 2, 2019, Panel A issued an Order for Summary Suspension of
License to Practice Medicine, in which it summarily suspended the Respondent’s
Maryland medical license. Panel A took such action pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively

requires emergency action.

spe pegs
