IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JASON GOODMAN, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D55846 * Case Number: 2218-0055

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

AMENDED ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE'

Disciplinary Panel A (‘Panel A’) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the “Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Jason Goodman,
M.D., (the “Respondent”), license number D55846, to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland. Disciplinary Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority
under Md. Code Ann., State Gov't Il (“State Gov't”) § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl.
Vol. & 2017 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a), concluding that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and
available to Panel A and the Office of the Attorney General, including the
instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the following facts

are true?

' This amended Order supersedes the Order of Summary Suspension dated March 30,
2018.

? The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the
Respondent with notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and
do not necessarily represent a complete description of the evidence, either documentary
or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with this matter.
 

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent has been licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on April 5, 2000. His license is scheduled to expire
on September 30, 2018.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in Internal Medicine.

3. On or about April 4, 2017, the Respondent began employment at a
medical office (the “Practice”)® in Anne Arundel County, Maryland.

4. On or about October 13, 2017, the Board received a complaint from a
partner in the Practice (the “Complainant”), who stated that after the
Respondent joined the Practice, he offered to take over prescribing
narcotics for several patients who already had pain management doctors.

5. The Complainant alleged that a patient (“Patient A”) reported that she
found some of her oxycodone‘ missing after the Respondent made a
home visit, and an audit of several patients determined that at least one
other patient (“Patient B”) was missing pain medication.

6. Another patient (“Patient C”) reported that the Respondent called her on
the same day that he prescribed oxycodone to schedule a home visit.

7. Board Staff interviewed the Complainant, who reported she was

downsizing her practice, and that her practice partner contracted with the

* To ensure confidentiality, the names of individuals, hospitals, medical offices, and
health care facilities are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the
identity of the referenced individuals and entities by contacting the assigned
administrative prosecutor.

* Oxycodone is a semisynthetic opioid synthesized from thebaine, an opioid alkaloid found
in the Persian poppy, and one of the many alkaloids found in the opium poppy. It is a
moderately potent opioid pain medication (orally roughly 1.5 times more potent
than morphine), generally indicated for relief of moderate to severe pain.

2
Respondent in a cost sharing arrangement, where the Respondent agreed
to share expenses and assume the care of certain patients in the
concierge practice. The Practice had a concierge arrangement with certain
patients who paid a yearly fee.

8. The Complainant reported that she was surprised when the Respondent
took over narcotic prescribing for Patient A, who was already being
followed by a pain management specialist.

9. According to the Complainant, the Respondent wrote a prescription for
Patient A for Oxycodone (20 mg), 1-2 every four hours PRN,° and Opana
ER (20 mg)° to be taken three times a day, and he gave her 90 pills with
no refills.

10. Later, the Complainant received a phone call from Patient A, who
complained that the Respondent made frequent visits to her home, and
after a visit she discovered that medication was missing. The Complainant
wrote Patient A another prescription to replace the missing medication and
advised her to return to the pain management practice.

11. The Complainant contacted Patient B, who also reported that the
Respondent made visits to her home. The Complainant then asked
Patient B to review her medications, and she discovered that pain
medication was also missing.

12. Board staff interviewed the Complainant's Practice partner, “Witness A,”
who stated that she became concerned about the Respondent's access to

5 PRN is a medical abbreviation, which means when necessary or as needed.
° Opana (Oxymorphone) extended release is a long acting opioid analgesic used to treat
moderate to severe pain.
patients after Patient A reported the frequency of the Respondent's home
visits and her concerns that he may have been stealing her medication.
Witness A also stated that it was not a routine practice for physicians in
the Practice to make home visits. Witness A agreed that under the
circumstances, the Practice needed to terminate the Respondent’s cost

sharing agreement with the Practice.

13. On or about October 4, 2017, the Practice informed the Respondent that it
was terminating his office sharing agreement due to the prescribing
irregularities and the missing medications.

14. Board Staff also subpoenaed Prescription Drug Monitoring Program
(PDMP) records for the Respondent, which documented that he
prescribed large amounts of oxycodone to patients who were not patients
at the Practice.

15. In furtherance of its investigation, Board staff interviewed Patients A, B,
and C and subpoenaed their medical records.

A. Patient Specific Allegations

Patient A

16. In an interview with Board staff, Patient A reported that the Respondent

contacted her and asked that she bring her medications with her for a
“meet and greet” scheduled for September 13, 2017, at the Practice. She
reported that during the meeting, the Respondent took her medications
and went in another room and took pictures of the medications. She

reported that the Respondent was alone with the medication.
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

Patient A reported that after the meeting with the Respondent she
discovered that about 40 of her oxycodone tablets were missing. She was
unsure about why the pills were missing so she contacted her pharmacy
to determine whether a mistake was made at the pharmacy. The
Pharmacy staff confirmed that records did not indicate that the pharmacy
made an error that resulted in a shortage of medication in Patient A’s
prescription.

Patient A reported that after her initial meeting with the Respondent he
visited her home four times in a ten-day period. She stated that he called
her several times on his mobile phone and said that he would be at her
house within 15-20 minutes. He claimed that he was in her neighborhood
because he had patients to see in a nearby residential facility.

Patient A reported that the Respondent came to her home on September
18, 2017, at 8:15 a.m. On that date he wrote Patient A new prescriptions,
including increasing the oxycodone from 5 tablets per day to 8 tablets per
day.

Patient A reported that on Saturday, September 30, 2017, the Respondent
came to her house early in the morning. She described him as unshaven,
disheveled looking, casually dressed, and she commented that he “almost
looked desperate.” He asked her to produce her medication and she
complied.

During that visit, Patient A stated that the Respondent asked her to show

him a fossil from a fossil collection she kept in her home because his son
22.

23,

24.

25.

was interested in fossils. Patient A left the room to retrieve the fossil and
the Respondent was left alone with her medication.

After the Respondent left her home Patient A discovered that 80-90
oxycodone tablets were missing. Patient A reports that she lives alone and
no one else has access to her medication.

Patient A discussed her concerns about the Respondent with a friend,
who advised her not to allow the Respondent to return to her home for
medical visits. Patient A also reported her concerns to the physicians at
the Practice.

Patient B

In an interview with Board staff, Patient B reported that she met the
Respondent at a “meet and greet” at the Practice on September 12, 2017.
At that time, Patient B stated that she was taking Tramadol’ and
sertraline.® The Respondent told her that she should not take those
medications together and he prescribed oxycodone instead. Patient B
reported that the Respondent assured her that oxycodone was better for
her than Tramadol.

The Respondent wrote her a prescription for 150 oxycodone on
September 12, 2017 and delivered it to her home on September 13, 2017.

Patient B reported that during the home visit, the Respondent kept asking

7 Tramadol is an opioid-like medication used to treat moderate to severe pain.

® Sertraline, commonly sold under the trade name Zoloft, is an antidepressant of the
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) class. It is primarily used for major
depressive disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and social anxiety
disorder.
26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

her questions about the medications and followed her into her bedroom
where she kept her medication.

On one of the home visits, Patient B mentioned to the Respondent that
she kept old medication in the cabinets in her bathroom. The Respondent
took the medications with him, advising Patient B that he planned to
dispose of the medication. Patient B stated that some of the medications,
included pain medication, which had been prescribed for prior dental
procedures.

Patient B reported that the Respondent followed her around in her home,
which made her uncomfortable. The Respondent asked to see her current
medications, which were stored in her bedroom and bathroom. The
Respondent dumped the medications out on the sink and examined them.
On September 26, 2017, the Respondent prescribed 150 oxycodone
tablets for Patient B.

According to Patient B, on October 3, 2017, the Respondent contacted her
to make an appointment to discuss some laboratory results. Patient B
states that she tried to discourage the Respondent, but he insisted on
coming over.

The Respondent came over and delivered the laboratory results. He
asked to use the bathroom and left quickly afterwards.

The Complainant contacted Patient B to express her concerns about the
Respondent and asked Patient B to count her pain medication. Patient B

reported that she found pain medication missing.
Patient C

32.

33.

34.

35,

On July 11, 2017, Patient C had a “meet and greet” with the Respondent
at the Practice. Patient C complained that she was having pain in her liver,
and that she was not getting any relief from Tramadol or ibuprofen. The
Respondent prescribed oxycodone and ordered an x-ray.

On or about October 3, 2017, the Respondent called Patient C and stated
that he wanted to stop by with another order for an x-ray. The Respondent
then asked her if she had picked up her order for oxycodone. After Patient
C told him that she had not picked up the prescription, the Respondent
said that he would drop off the order for the x-ray on another day.
Toxicology Screening Results

The Respondent was subpoenaed to the Board for an interview on March
7, 2018. The Subpoena required the Respondent to appear at the Board
and give testimony in the form of an interview. The Respondent arrived at
the Board with counsel, but he refused to answer any questions under
oath. The Respondent's counsel advised him not to respond to the

interview questions.

After the March 7th meeting with the Board, the Respondent went for a
toxicology screen per the Board's instructions. The results of the screening
indicated that the Respondent tested positive for opiates and various

opioid medications.
 

CONCLUSION OF LAW
Based on the foregoing investigative findings, Panel A concludes that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this
case, pursuant to State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) and Md. Code Regs.
10.32.02.08B(7)(a).

ORDER

 

It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by State Gov't § 10-
226(c)(2), the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation Summary Suspension Hearing in
accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08 B(7), C & E has been scheduled
for Wednesday, April 11, 2018, at 1:00 p.m. before Panel A at the Maryland
State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-
0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation Summary
Suspension Hearing held before Panel A, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the
result of the hearing, may request within ten (10) calendar days an evidentiary
hearing, such hearing to be held within thirty (30) calendar days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-

1301; and be it further
ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed
by Panel A in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il § 14-407 (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is a Final Order of Panel A and, as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg.

Apr ("figtn
i 4, 201k A -
Date Christine A. Farretly, ‘E fc

Maryland State Board o

    

 

10
