IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

HUGO BENALCAZAR, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D56356 * Case Number: 2221-0051
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
ON ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

On July 2, 2021, pursuant to § 10-226(c)(2) of the State Government Article, Md. Code
Ann., Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) issued an
Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, which immediately suspended
Respondent Hugo Benalcazar, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. On July 14,
2021, Disciplinary Panel A held a postdeprivation hearing on the summary suspension and, on
July 15, 2021, affirmed the summary suspension.

On October 4, 7, and 8, 2021, a contested case, evidentiary hearing was held before an
Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) at the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”). The
State presented the following witnesses: a Compliance Analyst of the Board; Complainant 1, a
registered nurse, Complainant 2, a surgical technologist; Individual 3, an Operating Room
(“O.R.”) unit secretary; Individual 4, an O.R. unit secretary; and Individual 9, a physician
assistant. The Respondent did not present any testimony or witnesses at the OAH hearing. On
December 15, 2021, the ALJ issued a proposed decision recommending that the Order for
Summary Suspension be reversed.

Both the State and the Respondent filed exceptions. The State filed exceptions arguing

that the ALJ’s finding—that any threat that the Respondent may have posed had been
ameliorated by the time the summary suspension was issued—was unsound. The Respondent’s
exceptions focus on his claim that the ALJ did not properly address his contention that
exculpatory evidence was purposely not presented to the Board panel before the panel issued the
order summarily suspending his license. Both parties filed a reply to the opposing party’s
exceptions.

On March 23, 2022, an exceptions hearing was held before Board Disciplinary Panel B
(“Panel B” or the “Panel’”).

I. FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds that the following facts were proven by the preponderance of evidence:

1, The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
August 3, 2000. The Respondent continually had his license renewed, and he was authorized to
practice medicine in Maryland from August 2000 until his medical license was summarily
suspended on July 2, 2021. The conduct of the Respondent that is the focus of this case occurred
while he was licensed by the Board. The Respondent is male.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in neurological surgery.

3. The Respondent has practiced neurosurgery, physical therapy, and pain
management in Maryland. The Respondent has held privileges at four hospitals in Maryland.
Complainant 1

4, Complainant 1, a female, has been a registered nurse for over 20 years and works
in the O.R. as a registered nurse.' Complainant 1 worked at a hospital in Maryland (the
“Hospital”) from May 2004 until October 2018.

' The Panel has used generic terms for individuals and facilities where possible in order protect
their reasonable expectation of privacy and for patients, their confidentiality. In addition, this

case involves issues of sexual harassment and inappropriate sexual conduct, and thus the Panel
does its best to keep the names of the victims confidential.

2
38, On November 30, 2020, the Board received two complaints from Complainant 2
against the Respondent. In the first November 30, 2020 complaint (dated November 19, 2020),
Complainant 2 described an incident in which the Respondent slapped the buttocks of Patient 1.
In the second November 30, 2020 complaint (dated November 19, 2020), she stated that the
Respondent was inappropriate when examining her for lower back pain. On December 29, 2020,
the Board received a third complaint (dated Nov. 19, 2020) from Complainant 2 against the
Respondent, detailing an instance when Complainant 2 was orienting a new surgical technologist
at the Hospital and the Respondent stroked her neck. Complainant 2 felt “extremely
uncomfortable” and “embarrassed.” The complaint also indicated that the Respondent touched
her multiple times a day when they worked together, that she did not like it, and that she did not
know what to do about it.

39. On July 2, 2021, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board issued the Respondent the
Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine.

40. | The Respondent presented a substantial likelihood of risk of serious harm to the
public health, safety and welfare. Thus, the order for summary suspension was imperatively

required to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, under State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2).

Il, CREDIBILITY
The Respondent did not testify at the OAH hearing, but, on May 21, 2021, and, on May
25, 2021, he was interviewed by Board compliance analysts. When the Respondent was
interviewed by the Board’s compliance analysts, he denied slapping or spanking Patient 1’s
buttocks. He said that he was pushing the tissue on her buttocks to show the O.R. staff where to
place the frame of a navigational instrument, indicating that the frame should not be placed on

fatty tissue where it would be unstable. The Panel does not find his denial credible.

il

 
The Respondent’s statements have been inconsistent on this matter. The Hospital’s Ad
Hoc Committee investigation report states that the Respondent “acknowledged the incident,
though he explained it by saying that he was not happy with the way the patient was taped,
removed the tape and moved the patient’s buttocks.” Individual 9 also said that the Respondent
was upset at how the patient was taped. The Respondent’s testimony during his interview with
the Board’s compliance analysts in which he stated that he was showing the O.R. staff where to
place a navigational instrument’s frame conflicts with his statement to the Hospital’s Ad Hoc
Committee.

Moreover, the Respondent’s version during his interview is contradicted by three
eyewitnesses to the incident: Complainant 2, Individual 5, and Individual 9. (Individual 5 did not
testify at the hearing, but she was interviewed by the Board’s compliance analysts.) The Panel
credits the testimony of Complainant 2, Individual 9, and Individual 5, who each testified that he
slapped and/or smacked the patient’s buttocks. Individual 9 said the Respondent was “joking
around” and sang the verse of “Baby Got Back.” (State’s Ex. 7, T. 18.) Complainant 2 testified
that the Respondent was making comments about how good [Patient 1] looked for her age, that
she was in great shape, and that her backside looked great. (T. 247.) Complainant 2 also testified
that she was “in complete disbelief.” (Jd.) Individual 5 testified, “it felt extremely
unprofessional and that’s why I reported it.” (State’s Ex. 15, T. 12.) There were some
differences with the details of the incidents between these three witnesses, but those
discrepancies are relatively minor and understandable considering how shocking the
Respondent’s conduct was to the witnesses.

Concerning Individual 4, when the Respondent was interviewed by the Board compliance

analysts, he denied the incident involving Individual 4 in which Individual 4 testified that the

12

 
Respondent repeatedly asked her to touch his penis. In fact, when the Respondent was initially
interviewed, he initially denied even knowing who Individual 4 was:

Q. Are you familiar with [Individual 4]?

[The Respondent] A. No.

Q. Okay. She was an OR — or she is an OR secretary at [the
Hospital]. You have no recollection of her, [Individual 4]?

[COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT]: [Spells the last name of
Individual 4}?
[COMPLIANCE ANALYST]: Correct.
[COMPLIANCE ANALYST]: [Blank in transcript]

[The Respondent] A. I don’t.

Q. Okay. [Individual 4] reported that she changed her schedule at [the
Hospital] in order to avoid you after you began bringing her coffee,
started calling her by the name Strawberry, commenting on her body and
clothes and again texting and calling her personnel cell phone. Do you
have any — can you respond to that, or you have no recollection of who
she is?

A. No. I do —I do recall that we had a — again, a playful relationship
there which I thought was mutual.

Q. Okay. She stated that she told you that it made her uncomfortable,
asked you to stop bringing her coffee and began wearing jackets to avoid
your comments. Were you bringing her coffee?

A. Ihave very little recollection of this but certainly possible that that
would be the case. And if anyone asked me to stop bringing them

coffee, I would stop bringing them coffee.
* * *

 

I
'
i
|
'
I

 

Q. Okay. And you don’t remember anybody that you would call by
the nickname Strawberry?
A. No. I do-—JI do recall that. I called her that once because her hair
was red.
. Okay.
. And I said your hair looks like a strawberry.
. Okay. And do you remember if that was [Individual 4]?
. Idon’t remember.
. Okay.
A. I don’t remember the name.

2

A
Q
A
Q

(State’s Ex. 19, T. 58-61.)
After the interview, however, counsel for the Respondent contacted a Board compliance
analyst and said that after the Respondent had time to reflect on the interview, he was able to

recall additional important information regarding Individual 4. A second interview, therefore,

13
was held four days after the first. At the second interview, the Respondent provided the
following testimony:

The, other person was [Individual 4] and [Individual 4], you know,
first of all, the allegation, never happened, never, I didn’t understand that
whole thing at all, but there is more to [Individual 4] that’s very
important, again, for context.

[Individual 4], I, I would bring coffee to [Individual 4]. I didn’t
know what kind of coffee she liked, you know, and people are very
particular about their coffee, so [Individual 4] would tell me what coffee
she wanted. This isn’t something where I’m forcing coffee on someone.

And that sort of sparked a friendly relationship at the hospital and that
friendly relationship morphed into a romantic relationship outside of the
hospital.

And on one occasion she drove to my administrative office, which is
about a mile or so away from the hospital, after hours, specifically to
have an encounter with me. She drove her own car, you know, I wasn’t
there with her.

And, and that lasted a very short time, but the reason that it ended was
strictly on ~ I ended it. And the reason it ended was because she made a
demand for money to me and that, you know, freaked me out. I was
extremely concerned, obviously, because there was no talk of that at all.

And obviously it is an implied threat to me, and so, and so that’s how
it ended.

a ee

Q. But you had a sexual relationship with her?

[The Respondent] A. We had a romantic relationship, yes.

. Okay. And when you say romantic, was there sexual intercourse?
. Well, yes, there was.

Okay.

. The one time.

* * *

. Mm-hmm. And how did she end up coming to the office?

. Oh, I, probably I invited her there.

>O Pore

(State’s Ex. 20, T. 6-10.) The Respondent then said there was no specific amount of money that
was requested by Individual 4. The Respondent then testified that he communicated with
Individual 4 by phone, by text, and by Snapchat. Later in the interview, the discussion turned
back to the first interview when he denied knowing who Individual 4 was:

[BOARD COMPLIANCE ANALYST]: I guess you’re talking about
someone that you had sex with that threatened you and we, you know,

14
gave some reference to and that you didn’t remember it on Friday, that’s
what I’m just kind of confused about.

[THE RESPONDENT]: Yeah; no, I, it’s not that I didn’t remember it,
it’s that I couldn’t, I have to put some kind of coherent thing together,
you know, for you guys.

I have to — you want the whole truth and, you know, I, I probably
should have asked for a break or something like that, but the next thing I
know we were ending and my mind was, you know, running around all
over the place.

So, you know, [Individual 4] is not a name I used and so that threw
me off, the allegation is barbarous and untrue and threw me off.

So, yeah, this isn’t like I had forgot this person, but it is something
where if I started talking at that moment, I don’t think I could have put,
put two and two together. And I didn’t want to do that, so.

And there is one other thing, too, and that is that, that this person sent
me a picture of herself which is, let’s just say, highly suggestive and,
again, I just want to underscore the sort of consenting mutual aspect of
the relationship.

BY [BOARD COMPLIANCE ANALYST]

Q. When did she send you a suggestive picture?

A. Pretty much right before she — my best recollection is pretty much
right before she asked me for the money.

Q. And I know it’s been awhile, do you have any proof of her asking
for the money or anything like that?

A. I don’t think I have any proof of her asking for the money, but I do
have the picture that she sent.

(State’s Exhibit 20, T. 13-14.)

At the evidentiary hearing before the ALJ, Individual 4 testified. Individual 4 testified
that she had not been in a relationship with the Respondent, that she had not had sex with him,
and did not ask him for money. On cross examination, Individual 4 did state that she had had a
traumatic brain injury and thus could not be 100 percent positive of her recollections, but that she
did not have any recollection of a relationship, sex, or money discussions with the Respondent.
On cross examination, she was shown the racy photograph. Individual 4 acknowledged that the
photograph was of her but said that she did not send it to the Respondent. She testified that she
and an anesthesiologist at the Hospital sent photographs to each other. On redirect, Individual 4

was asked about how the photograph could have come into the possession of the Respondent:

15
Q. Now, just to clarify, do you know how Dr. Benalcazar would have
come into possession of that picture of you?
[Individual 4] A. Like I said, the only reasonable explanation I can
come up with is that someone else showed him, gave it to him. I’m not —
that’s the only reasonable explanation I have.
(T. 371-72.)
The Panel does not find the Respondent’s testimony regarding Individual 4 trustworthy.
When he was initially interviewed by the Board compliance analysts, he denied even knowing
who Individual 4 was. When he was interviewed the second time, he explained that he had not
forgotten who Individual 4 was when he was asked about her in the first interview, but he was
not about to “put some kind of coherent thing together.” He further said, “So, yeah, this isn’t like
I had forgot this person, but it is something where if I started talking at that moment, I don’t
think I could have put, put two and two together. And I didn’t want to do that, so.” The Panel
finds that the Respondent simply lied to the Board compliance analysts. At first, he denied even
knowing who she was, and then four days later he stated that he had a romantic relationship with
her, had sex with her, that she threatened him for money, and that he has a racy photograph of
her. The extent to which he deliberately gave false statements to the Board compliance analysts
indicates that his statements are not reliable. The Panel finds that the Respondent is not credible.
The evidence in this case does not indicate that he had sexual intercourse with Individual 4, does
not indicate that she demanded money from him, and does not indicate that she sent him the racy
photograph. The Panel cannot find that Individual 4 fabricated information when she was
interviewed or testified before the ALJ. In determining which of these two individuals the Panel
relies upon, the only reasonable determination is to believe Individual 4 over the Respondent.

The Panel finds Individual 4’s testimony credible.

I. EXCEPTIONS

16
1. STATE’S EXCEPTIONS

A. Whether the Respondent Posed a Continuing Danger Requiring
the Order for Summary Suspension

The State took exception to the ALJ’s finding that the Respondent did not pose a danger
at the time the order for summary suspension was issued. The crux of the ALJ’s decision is that
any real danger the Respondent may have posed had disappeared by the time the order for
summary suspension was issued. The ALJ found that there is no evidence of the Respondent’s
misconduct after he was issued a Letter of Reprimand from the Hospital, demonstrating, to the
ALJ, that the Letter of Reprimand by the Hospital was sufficient to suppress any threat of serious
harmful conduct by the Respondent. There are, however, a number of flaws in the ALJ’s
proposed finding.

To support the finding that the order for summary suspension was not imperatively
required, the ALJ attempted to distinguish the Mullan case. Board of Physician Quality
Assurance v, Mullan, 381 Md. 157, 173 (2004). In Mullan, the Board summarily suspended the
license of a pediatrician, Dr. Mullan, because Dr. Mullan treated patients while intoxicated. Id.
at 161. The Court of Appeals affirmed the summary suspension. Jd. at 173. The ALJ’s
reasoning in the Respondent’s case was that no new allegations of wrongdoing after the Letter of
Reprimand was issued demonstrated no continuing danger. The ALJ contrasted that to Mullan,
finding that, in Mudlan, unlike in the Respondent’s case, “there was no evidence that the situation
had been ameliorated in any way.” (ALJ’s Proposed Decision (“PD”) at 13.) In Mullan,
however, there was only one episode of proven wrongdoing, which was that, on one day, April
10, 2000, Dr. Mullan treated patients while intoxicated. There were no complaints of Dr. Mullan

treating patients while intoxicated other than the one complaint about April 10, 2000, which

17
actually led the Court of Special Appeals to “reverse[ ] the Board’s finding that summary
suspension was ‘imperatively required.’” Mullan, 381 Md. at 162.

The approach taken by the Court of Special Appeals was the same taken by the ALJ in
the Respondent’s case. The Court of Special Appeals had found that the lack of complaints
between complaint to the Board and the order to summarily suspend “vitiated” any evidence that
the order for summary suspension was imperatively required. Mullan, 381 Md. at 161-62. The
Court of Appeals, in Mullan, then reversed the Court of Special Appeals, rejecting the reasoning
of the Court of Special Appeals. Jd. at 173. Thus, Mullan specifically rejects the approach and
reasoning applied by the ALJ in the Respondent’s case.

The Court of Appeals, in Mullan, explained why Dr. Mullan continued to pose a danger
requiring order for summary suspension despite there being only one day in which it was proven
that he saw patients while intoxicated:

When a pediatrician, with a history of severe alcoholism, renders

medical care to children while visibly intoxicated, he exhibits a

remarkable lack of sound judgment by his failure to decide not to see

patients on that day, even if he could not refrain from using alcohol.

Such a lack of sound judgment is sufficient evidence for a reasonable

Board to conclude the incident might repeat itself, requiring immediate

suspension of the doctor’s license and posing a danger that imperatively

requires emergency action.
Mullan, 381 Md. at 173. The Respondent demonstrated his remarkable lack of sound judgment
by his long-term sexual harassment and offensive touching.

The real difference between Mullan and the Respondent’s case is that Mullan
demonstrated his poor judgment on one day, while the Respondent’s deleterious behavior and

remarkable lack of sound judgment at the Hospital was evident on numerous occasions over the

course of years.

18
Additionally, the Respondent’s egregious, long-term behavior was a real distraction to the
medical professionals at the Hospital, jeopardizing the health, safety, and welfare of patients in
the Hospital. The Respondent jeopardized patient care because he degraded the Hospital
environment by being a distraction from the focus that is supposed to be on the practice of
medicine, and he impaired the “teamwork approach of health care in the which requires
participation from a variety of hospital personnel in order to deliver effective patient care.”
Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59, 75 (1999). The medical
professionals working with him on neurosurgery cases in the O.R. should be entirely focused on
the medical case, and should not have to worry about protecting themselves and the patients from
the Respondent’s improper behavior. Individual 5 described the negative effect the Respondent

had:

So, you know, your focus is just making sure that the patient is going to
come out okay and it definitely --I don’t want to say it impairs you 100
percent, but you definitely are — are impaired, because you’re also
worried about how you have to avoid another conversation with a
surgeon - which is impossible to avoid when you’re working in a
surgical area like that, because you need to talk to him, you need to have
open communication, and you kind of have to forget those things
happened, and treat every day like a new day, and that’s really difficult
when you do experience things and know things that have happened.

(State’s Ex. 15 at 33.)

And when the Respondent slapped Patient 1’s buttocks while she was completely
defenseless and when he pulled Individual 4 into a room and tried to make her touch his penis,
the Respondent demonstrated a mindset so depraved that the Panel finds that, at the time the
order for summary suspension was issued, there was a strong likelihood that this type of conduct
would be repeated. The record does not show that the Respondent’s mindset, which led him to

act in the manner he did against Patient 1 and Individual 4, had been improved to any significant

19

 
degree, which made him a continuing threat to cause serious harm, requiring the order for
summary suspension.?

The Panel finds that the ALJ placed far too much weight on the lack of additional reports
of misconduct occurring after the Letter of Reprimand, especially because the ALJ did not take
into account that the Hospital was disinclined to forcefully act on employee complaints brought
to its attention against the Respondent. It was only after allegations against the Respondent’s
conduct became a lawsuit, filed by Complainant 2 in circuit court against the Respondent and the
Hospital, that the Hospital moved to address his behavior. Complainant 1 thought that the
Hospital! did not take her complaints against the Respondent seriously. (T. 39-40.) This was also
expressed by Complainant 2. (T. 250.) Individual 4 did not believe her concerns about the
Respondent were properly handled by the Hospital’s perioperative director. Individual 5
reported the Respondent’s behavior to the charge nurse, and she testified, “where it went from
there, I don’t know.” (Ex. 15 at 36.) Individual 5 complained to the Hospital about the
Respondent, and she “was pretty much told to — to shut up and leave it alone . . . that there was
nothing we could do to — to really fix the situation at hand.” (Ex. 15 at 31.) And it is most likely
that the Hospital’s lenient handling of the Respondent imparted upon the Hospital employees that
the Hospital would not provide protection against the Respondent, further discouraging

complaints against him. In sum, the environment at, and lack of strong action by, the Hospital

> The Panel also certainly does not accept the ALJ’s statement that a dangerous situation may not
have ever existed. The ALJ wrote, “There was no evidence before the Board that a dangerous
situation, if one ever existed, continued at the time of the Order for Summary Suspension. (PD at
13) (italics added). There, however, were three eyewitnesses, at least, to Respondent slapping
the buttocks of Patient 1 while she was anesthetized. Patient 1 was slapped on her buttocks for
no medical reason. When the Respondent attempted to have a hospital employee touch his penis,
this was actual harm. The Panel does not accept the ALJ’s suggestion that there may never have
been a danger. There already was serious actual harm with actual victims.

20
5. In 2013, Complainant 1 was working at the Hospital with the Respondent treating
a patient. They were using a 3D navigational system instrument that had silver balls. At the end
of the procedure, the balls fell on the floor. Complainant 1 picked up some of them off the floor
and put them in the Respondent’s pocket. The Respondent then said to Complainant 1, “Why
don’t you put them in your mouth?” Complainant 1 responded, “[T]hat is gross.” Later that day,
Complainant 1 was working in a computer area in the Hospital, and the Respondent walked over
to her and placed his hand through the V-neck opening of her scrub shirt, and he placed his hand
on Complainant 1’s chest. He did not touch Complainant 1’s breasts.

6. Complainant | reported the incidents to the Hospital’s perioperative director at the
and the two of them had a meeting with the Respondent. The Hospital took no action against the
Respondent at this time, and Complainant | felt her concerns were not taken seriously by the
perioperative director or by the Respondent.

7. The Respondent made other inappropriate comments to Complainant 1, for
instance, stating to Complainant 1 that he could see her bra straps and underwear.

Complainant 2

8. Complainant 2, a female, is a surgical technologist. Complainant 2 works at the
Hospital. She began working at the Hospital in June 2015.

9. Complainant 2 previously worked in the O.R. with the Respondent two days per
week.

10. In 2016, Complainant 2 had lower back pain while she was pregnant. On one
occasion, Complainant 2 was in the O.R. and mentioned her pain to one of her colleagues. The
Respondent overheard and offered to examine her in between cases. The Respondent escorted

her into a Hospital room and closed the door. No one else was in the room. Complainant 2
certainly left the impression that any complaints against the Respondent would not result in
action that would properly address his conduct.

Even more, employees felt there could be retaliation against them for complaining about
the Respondent. This was expressed by Individual 3, Individual 4, and Complainant 2.
Complainant 2 felt there would have been a “target on [her] back” if she made these complaints
to the Hospital. In her interview, Complainant 2 stated that the Respondent “would mention
how he could get [Individual 5] fired.” (Ex. 5 at 8.) And the Respondent did his part to impart
upon Hospital personnel that he would retaliate against those who complained about him.
Individual 3 testified that the Hospital personnel were afraid to report him, because they felt he
could get them fired.

The incident in which the Respondent’s slapped Patient 1’s buttocks also militates against
placing too much weight on the lack of complaints after the Letter of Reprimand. Here, the
Respondent demonstrated that he is not above abusing someone who was not conscious. If he
engaged in this type of conduct again against someone who was not conscious and there was no
one else present to observe, it would not have been reported.

The Panel rejects the ALJ’s conclusion that the lack of complaints after the Hospital
issued the Letter of Reprimand meant that the Respondent’s conduct had been ameliorated. The
Panel gives minimal weight to the lack of further allegations after the Letter of Reprimand. The
lack of further allegations after the Letter of Reprimand does not convince the Panel that the
Respondent no longer presented a significant risk of serious harm to the public health, safety, and
welfare.

The Respondent continued to be a serious danger when the order for summary suspension

was issued due to his astonishing lack of sound judgment, his utter lack of boundaries, the

21
distraction he caused at the Hospital, and the seriousness of his egregious behavior. The ALJ’s
proposed finding that there was no real danger at the time the Order for Summary Suspension
was issued is rejected by the Panel. The State’s exception is granted.

B. Articulation of Theory for Summary Suspension

The ALJ found that the Board did not articulate a theory in the order for summary
suspension stating how the Respondent posed a serious risk of harm at the time the order for
summary suspension was issued. (PD at 10-11.) The State took exception.

The ALJ’s proposed decision states, “While the Board detailed its Investigative Findings
in the Order for Summary Suspension, nowhere did it explicitly state in what way the
Respondent’s alleged behavior would form the grounds for a revocation under section 14-404 of
the Health Occupations Article of the Maryland Code.” (PD at 10.) The order for summary
suspension, however, does not concern a revocation under § 14-404 of the Health Occupations
Article. The summary suspension was based upon § 10-226(c)(2) of the State Government
Article, which requires the agency to give the licensee “written notice of the suspension, the
finding, and the reasons that support the finding.” State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2)(ii)1. The order for
summary suspension notified the Respondent of the suspension, stating that “the Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED.”
(Capitals and bold in original.) The order for summary suspension provided the finding, stating
“Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs.
(COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).” The order for summary suspension also provided the

reasoning upon which the finding of the imperative need for the summary suspension was based:

22
9. The Board’s investigation determined that for a period of several

years, the Respondent engaged in a pattern of unprofessional conduct

that included, but was not limited to, sexual harassment of hospital staff,

both verbal and physical, sexual propositioning, and unconsented-to

physical contact of at least one patient. The Respondent’s conduct

proceeded largely unchecked over a period of time due in-part to staff

members’ perceptions that any complaints about his conduct would not

be acted upon at the organizational level.
The order for summary suspension then detailed over the next seven pages the specific alleged
facts supporting the order’s reasoning as to why the summary suspension was imperative. Based
on the order for summary suspension, it is clear that the reason the summary suspension was
imperative was because the Respondent’s long-term conduct at the Hospital was so outrageous,
so menacing and deleterious, and so outside the bounds of appropriate hospital behavior that he
persisted as a serious danger. The Panel finds this a reasonable understanding of the order of
summary suspension. And Panel B agrees with, and accepts, this reason. The ALJ may not
have agreed with it, but that does not mean that the order for summary suspension was deficient.
The ALJ erred. The State’s exception is granted.
C. Length of Time of Investigation

As to when an agency issues an order for summary suspension, if the agency chooses to
issue such an order, is left to the discretion of the agency. Mullan, 381 Md. at 168. The ALJ
inferred that the issuance of the summary suspension was an abuse of the panel’s discretion,
because the order of summary suspension was issued 10 months after the Board received the first
complaint against the Respondent. The State took exception.
An abuse of discretion is established if no reasonable person would take the same action

that was taken by the agency. See Sibly v. Doe, 227 Md. App. 645, 658 (2016). The burden of

demonstrating an abuse of discretion is on the one challenging the discretionary action taken by

23

 
the agency. See State v. Brown, 355 Md. 89, 98 (1999). The ALJ’s analysis for finding an
inference of an abuse of discretion was as follows:
The length of delay here, from the first complaint filed with the Board

on August 30, 2020, to the date of suspension, July 2, 2021, was ten

months. While there is no allegation that the Respondent in any way

contributed to this delay, the COVID-19 pandemic certainly must have.

Nevertheless, the Board was able to interview witnesses and meet

remotely, giving rise to the inference that suspending summarily based

on an allegation that it was imperatively required was an abuse of the

Board’s discretion.
(PD at 12.) Essentially, the ALJ established a 10-month deadline for the issuance of an order for
summary suspension after an agency receives a complaint against a licensee, indicating that the
ALJ believed that a 10-month investigation is just too long. The ALJ erred.

The ALJ’s creation of a 10-month deadline was without regard to the circumstances of
the case and the investigation needed. The ALJ’s analysis is devoid of any facts or information
about the investigation, other than it took 10 months to issue the order for summary suspension
from the date of the first complaint. The ALJ did not consider the nature or complexity of the
investigation or the amount of material involved or any of the numerous reasons that might
explain the investigation period (other than the investigation taking place during the COVID-19
pandemic).* The ALJ also did not consider whether the Respondent was prejudiced by the
length of the investigation, in contravention of the caselaw set forth in Mullan. 381 Md. at 169.
As articulated by the Court of Appeals, there simply has to be more than just the length of the
investigation to support the finding that the issuance of the order for summary suspension was
arbitrary or capricious. Mullan, 381 Md. At 170 (quoting State v. Chavis, 261 S.C. 408, 200
4 The ALJ also calculated the 10-month period from the date the Board received the first
complaint. But there were three complaints that the Board received later. Two were received
three months after the first complaint and another was received four months after the first

complaint. It does not make sense to the Pane! to impose a 10-month deadline and not factor in
the Board receiving three more complaints months after receiving the first complaint.

24
S.E.2d 390, 392 (1973) (“when ‘there is nothing other than an unexplained delay on the part of
reporting officials, unaccompanied by any showing of prejudice to the driver, the driver is not
entitled to any relief because of a delay in imposing the suspension. ...’”) The ALJ’s analysis
does not comport with the vast discretion expressly afforded agencies investigating potential
summary suspension cases: “When investigating potential summary suspensions, an agency
should not compromise the thoroughness of its investigation because of the threat of judicial
reversal should the investigation take ‘too long.’” Id.

It is also significant that the Mullan decision cites a New York board case in which the
summary suspension was upheld despite the investigation taking six years. See Mullan, 381 Md.
at 170 (citing John P. v. Axelord, 97 A.D.2d 950, 468 N.Y.S.2d 951-53 (N.Y.App.Div. 1983)).
And the Board has summarily suspended a physician’s license after seven years from when the
Board received the first complaint against the physician and six years after receiving the second
complaint. Roane v. Maryland Board of Physicians, 213 Md. App. 619 (2013). The Panel does
not accept the ALJ’s finding or inference that the order for summary suspension was an abuse of
discretion simply because the investigation took 10 months. The ALJ’s proposed decision does
not set forth any basis for concluding that the order for summary suspension was an abuse of the
panel’s discretion. See Mullan, 381 Md. at 168-73. The State’s exception is granted.

2. RESPONDENT’S EXCEPTIONS

The Respondent argues that the Board violated the Respondent’s due process rights. The
Respondent claims that the Board staff withheld excuipatory evidence from the disciplinary
panel at the time the panel voted to issue the order for summary suspension. The Respondent

contends that the Board’s staff either did not obtain, or purposely kept away, exculpatory

25

 
material, such as the Demand Letter, from the disciplinary panel because the material was, or
would have been, “inconsistent with their theory of the case.”

The first question is whether the Respondent possessed due process rights prior to the
issuance of the order for summary suspension. The Respondent argues, “cross examination and
the ability to present evidence was not afforded to the Respondent.” The Respondent quotes
Travers v. Baltimore Police Dep't: “a ‘basic tenet of fairness in administrative adjudications is
the requirement of an opportunity for reasonable cross-examination.’” 115 Md. App. 395, 417
(1997). Travers’ guidance on cross-examination, however, pertained to the evidentiary hearing,
not to the investigation stage. The appellant in Travers argued that the admission of hearsay
evidence during the evidentiary hearing violated his due process right to cross examination. But
the Travers court ruled that the right to cross examine was not violated, because the appellant
had the opportunity to subpoena the witnesses to testify at the evidentiary hearing but did not do
so. Jd. at 418. Moreover, in Rosov v. Maryland Bd. of Dental Exam’rs, 163 Md. App. 98, 115
(2005), the court explained that there is “‘no requirement, either in law or investigative
technique, that compels an investigative agency, prior to charging, to include the investigation

0

target or counsel in the interview process.”” Travers does not convince the Panel that the right
to cross examine applies during an agency’s investigation prior to the issuance of the order for
summary suspension.

It may be the case that the Respondent’s due process rights could have been violated if
the Board’s actions during the investigation and prior to the issuance of the order for summary
suspension compromised the evidentiary hearing to such an extent that the Respondent was

deprived of a fair evidentiary hearing. It does not appear to the Panel that the Respondent made

such an argument, but, even if he had, the Panel does not find that the Board staff’s actions

26
impaired the Respondent’s due process rights. The Respondent claims that Board staff purposely
withheld exculpatory material, specifically the “Demand Letter” (Resp.’s Ex. 7), from the panel
that issued the order for summary suspension. But the investigative material contained the fact
that Complainant 2 asked for $5,000,000 in exchange for her not pursuing actions against the
Respondent. (State’s Ex. 19 at 3, T. 9; State’s Ex. 26 at 7.) And the Respondent entered the
Demand Letter into evidence at the hearing before the ALJ (R. 174), and counsel for the
Respondent cross examined Complainant 2 about the Demand Letter. (T. 292-303.) The Panel
does not find any intent to keep exculpatory information away from the panel that issued the
summary suspension.

Furthermore, the concern that the Respondent has expressed over the information before
the disciplinary panel at, or prior, to the. issuance of the order for summary suspension, is
addressed by the post-deprivation hearing that is promptly held before a disciplinary panel after
the order for summary suspension is issued. Under COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7)(c), “[t]he
respondent is provided with a postdeprivation opportunity to be heard within 15 days by the
disciplinary panel, that voted to summarily suspend the license.” If the panel affirms the
summary suspension after the postdeprivation hearing, the Respondent has the right to a full
evidentiary hearing before an ALJ. The order for summary suspension was issued on July 2,
2021, and the postdeprivation hearing was held on July 15, 2021. At the postdeprivatrion
hearing, the Respondent had the opportunity to present his concerns about the summary
suspension, including presenting to the panel any relevant information he felt the panel should
have been apprised of.

Moreover, the significance of the Demand Letter in this case is not as consequential as

the Respondent argues. The Panel is aware that Complainant 2 has a financial stake in her

27
lawsuit, which could diminish her credibility. The Panel also understands that the Demand
Letter offered a deal that in exchange for $5,000,000 Complainant 2 would not file the lawsuit or
report the Respondent to various entities and agencies with jurisdiction over the Respondent,
which could indicate that Complainant 2 places a large sum of money for herself above her
interest in protecting others, which could also diminish her credibility. But the analysis does not
stop there. The Panel also must look at other indicators that weigh on her credibility, such as
whether her testimony is corroborated by, or conflicts with, the testimony and statements of
others. Complainant 2’s testimony was extensively corroborated by other witnesses. For
instance, Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent slapped an anesthetized patient’s
buttocks was corroborated by Individuals 5 and 9; Individual 3 corroborated Complainant 2’s
testimony that the Respondent made demeaning sexual comments to Complainant 2, such as
saying to Complainant 2, “I’d like to put you over my knee and spank you, spank you, spank
you”; and Individual 6 alleged that the Respondent tried to massage her [Individual 6’s] neck,
like Complainant 2 testified that the Respondent massaged her [Complainant 2’s] neck.
Considering the extent to which Complainant 2’s testimony was corroborated, the Demand Letter
does not undermine Complainant 2’s testimony to any significant degree.

The Respondent also argues that the Board initially did not interview the Hospital’s
perioperative director, because, “from the investigator’s perspective, the investigator knew or had
reason to believe that the account provided by the witness was already known.” (Resp.’s
Exceptions at 8.) During the investigation, Respondent’s counsel asked the Board to interview
the perioperative director. (Resp.’s Ex. 6.) Board staff then interviewed the perioperative

director. Neither party, however, offered the interview transcript into evidence or subpoenaed the

28
perioperative director to testify.> At the evidentiary hearing before the ALJ, the Respondent had
the opportunity to subpoena any witness he felt would help his position. OAH has extensive
procedures furnishing parties with the power to subpoena witnesses. Upon request of a party,
OAH may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses. COMAR
28.02.01.14A. Likewise, an ALJ may authorize the issuance of a subpoena pursuant to §
9-1605(c)(1) of the State Government Article. Under § 9-1605(d)(2), an ALJ may apply to a
circuit court to enforce a subpoena. Under COMAR 28.02.01.14F, “Ifa person fails to comply
with a properly served subpoena, at the request of an administrative law judge, the Office may
apply to the appropriate circuit court for an order to show cause why the person should not be
committed to jail for refusal to comply with a subpoena.” Therefore, even if due process rights
attached to evidentiary hearings could be tied to the Board’s actions during the investigation
stage, the record does not indicate that the Respondent’s evidentiary hearing process rights were
affected by the Board’s actions during the investigation stage. The Respondent’s exceptions are
denied, and the Panel does not adopt the ALJ’s proposed decision.
IV. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that the order, issued on July 2, 2021, pursuant to § 10-226(c)(2) of the
State Government Article, which summarily suspended the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland was imperatively required to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.

ORDER

It is, thus, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board Disciplinary Panel B
members present,‘ hereby
> During closing arguments, however, the ALJ stated that, because the transcript of the interview
of the perioperative director was on the computer disk (Respondent’s Ex. 3) containing the

Board’s investigative file, “Then it is in evidence.” (T. 443.)
§ Panel B had a quorum at the time it voted.

29
ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine,
issued on July 2, 2021, against the license of Respondent Hugo Benalcazar, M.D. to practice
medicine in Maryland, and the order, issued on July 15, 2021, affirming the order for summary
suspension, are AFFIRMED; and, thus, it is further

ORDERED that the license of the Respondent to practice medicine in Maryland remains
SUSPENDED, and thus, while the Respondent’s license is suspended, the Respondent shall not
practice medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that this final decision and order is a public document.

| Signature On File
OS/oi/z0Z2z
Date ! Christine A. Farrelly, Ex

edutive Director ()
Maryland State Board of cians

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO APPEAL
Pursuant to § 14-408(a) of the Health Occupations Article, the Respondent has the right
to seek judicial review of this final decision and order. Any petition for judicial review must be
filed in court within 30 days from the date this final decision and order was sent to the
Respondent. The final decision and order was sent on the date that it was issued. The petition
for judicial review must be made as directed in the Maryland Administrative Procedure Act, Md.
Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222, and Maryland Rules 7-201 et seq.
If the Respondent petitions for judicial review of this final decision and order, the Board
is a party and should be served with the court’s process. Also, a copy of the petition for judicial

review should be sent to the Maryland Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,

30
turned so the Respondent was behind her, so she could point to where the pain was. He asked
her to raise her shirt, which she did, about midway up her back. The Respondent placed his
hands on her waist and started to feel her lower back with his thumbs while asking her where the
pain was. The Respondent then asked her to lower her pants. She lowered her pants about
halfway down her buttocks. The Respondent then commented on how good Complainant 2
looked from behind and that her underwear was “very cute.” The Respondent was giggling.
Complainant 2 felt she was being taken advantage of, so she lifted her pants back up and left the
room.

11. | When Complainant 2 came back from maternity leave in October 2016, she
worked with the Respondent two days per week, Mondays and Wednesdays. She maintained this
schedule until May 2017. The Respondent asked her about her sex life with her fiancé and told
her that she would have a better time with him than with her fiancé. The Respondent also
physically touched her on days that they worked together. The touching was unwanted by
Complainant 2. He stroked her neck and massaged it. He also grabbed Complainant’s 2’s hair
and then would use it to turn her head. He showed her pictures of other women wearing risqué
Halloween costumes and said that he would love to see her in these costumes. The Respondent
physically grabbed Complainant 2 and pulled her close to him. He made comments about her
bra. At the scrub sink, the Respondent embraced her from behind. He felt her legs to see
whether she had shaved her legs. Complainant 2 testified, “I would describe it as it was a daily
occurrence. Every day he physically touched me. He verbally harassed me every day, every
shift I was there with him.” (T. 239.)

12, On April 19, 2017, Complainant 2 observed the Respondent slap the buttocks of

an anesthetized patient (“Patient 1”).
Maryland 21215. In addition, the Respondent should send a copy of the petition for judicial
review to the Board’s counsel, David Wagner, Assistant Attorney General, Office of the Attorney
General, 300 W. Preston Street, Suite 302, Baltimore, Maryland 21201 and by email at
david. wagner@maryland.gov The administrative prosecutor is not involved in the circuit court

process and does not need to be served or copied on pleadings filed in circuit court.

31
13. The Respondent talked about how he could get people fired, which caused
Complainant 2 to be afraid to report him. Complainant 2 stated that she asked her supervisors to
change her schedule but did not state that it was because of the Respondent. She believed that
her supervisors knew the reason that she wanted to change because she had told them many
times before about how uncomfortable she was, but the supervisor did not ask for the reason.
Ultimately, Complainant 2 was able to get her schedule changed so she did not have to work with
the Respondent any longer. On October 16, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a complaint with the
Hospital’s Human Resources department.

Patient 1

14. On April 19, 2017, a female patient, Patient 1, was in the O.R. and unconscious
after being anesthetized. Patient 1 was positioned for a lumbar procedure on her spinal column.
Patient | was lying on her abdomen, face down, and her buttocks were fully exposed. From her
neck to her feet there were no clothes or sheets covering her. The Respondent came into the
room and did not like the way a physician assistant had taped the skin of the patient, and the
Respondent ripped the tape off the patient. The Respondent made comments about how good
Patient 1 looked and that her buttocks looked great. The Respondent then forcefully slapped
Patient 1’s buttocks, which made a loud noise. The Respondent then sang the verse “Baby Got
Back” and was giggling. The Respondent told Individual 9 (a physician assistant) to re-tape the
patient. At least three O.R. workers witnessed this incident: Individual 9, Complainant 2, and
Individual 5. There was no medical justification for the Respondent to slap the patient’s
buttocks.

Individual] 3
15. Individual 3 is a O.R. unit secretary at the Hospital, and she has worked at the
Hospital for 21 years.

16. Individual 3 observed that Complainant 2 had a lot of issues involving the
Respondent regarding “offhand, off-color, sexual comments” the Respondent made. Individual 3
witnessed the Respondent and Complainant 2 come out the O.R. after a case and the Respondent
glared at Complainant 2 and said to her, “I’d like to put you over my knee and spank you, spank
you, spank you.” (T. 381.)

17. Individual 3 testified that “[pJeople were a little leery of going to anyone about his
behavior because they felt that nothing would be addressed.” (T. 382.) Individual 3 further
explained, “I think there was -- a lot of people were afraid that with his -- that they would get
fired if they tried to bring something to the forefront about him.” (/d.)

Individual 4

18. Individual 4, a female, began working at the Hospital in 2013. In 2015,
Individual 4 began working as an O.R. unit secretary. At the time of the evidentiary hearing,
Individual 4 was no longer working at the Hospital. The Respondent often called Individual 4
“Strawberry.”

19, One time at work, the Respondent was sitting at a desk close to where Individual
4 was sitting, and the Respondent called Individual 4 on her desk telephone and asked Individual
4 “to sit on his lap.” (T. 319.) On another occasion, the Respondent told Individual 4 that, for a
skinny girl, she had a “nice butt.” (T. 329.)

20. On another occasion, Individual 4 was walking down a Hospital hallway, and the
Respondent grabbed her wrist, led her into an office, and closed the door. No one else was in the

office. The Respondent then aggressively asked Individual 4 to touch his penis, The

 
Respondent asked eight times for Individual 4 to touch his penis. She “said no quite a few
times.” Individual 4 was “petrified.” (T. 325.) Individual 4 did manage to leave the office
without touching Respondent’s penis. Individual 4 told her best friend at work about this
incident. Individual 4 also spoke to the Hospital’s perioperative director about her concerns
about the Respondent, although Individual 4 does not recall how specific she was. Individual 4
did not think her concerns were properly handled by the perioperative director.

21. Individual 4 explained before the ALJ why she had not reported these incidents to
the Hospital’s Human Resources department: “Fear, knowing that he had said to people before
that he, you know, kind of had control over jobs.”

22. Individual 4 and the Respondent were never in a romantic relationship together
and never had sex with each other, Individual 4 never demanded money from the Respondent,
and Individual 4 did not send a racy photograph of herself to the Respondent.

Individual 5

23. Individual 5, a female, worked as a registered nurse at the Hospital. Individual 5
worked in the O.R. with the Respondent when she worked at the Hospital. Individual 5 now
works at a surgery center at another facility.

24. — In April 2017, Individual 5 observed the Respondent slap the buttocks of Patient
1. Individual 5 noticed that everyone who saw him slap the patient looked shocked. Individual
5 was interviewed by Board staff and said, “You know, that’s not typical behavior of a surgeon,
at least not a good one, and I do remember reporting it.” Individual 5 reported the incident to the
charge nurse, but stated, “And I don’t know that anything after that point was ever done.”

(State’s Ex. 15, T. 10.)
25. Working in the O.R with the Respondent was impairing for Individual 5.
Individual 5 explained:

I don’t want to say it impairs you 100 percent, but you definitely are —
are impaired, because you’re also worried about how you have to avoid
another conversation with a surgeon — which is impossible to avoid when
you’re working in a surgical area like that, because you need to talk to
him, you need to have open communication, and you kind of have to
forget those things happened, and treat every day like a new day, and
that’s really difficult when you do experience things and know things
that have happened.
Individual 6

26. Individual 6, a female, worked at the Hospital as a neuromonitoring tech for
approximately two years, from 2015 to 2017.

27. The Respondent tried to give Individual 6 a neck massage at least twice.
Individual 9

28. Individual 9 is a surgical physician assistant for surgery. He has been a physician
assistant since 1993. Individual 9 was employed by the Respondent from July 2016 to
November 2017. He has worked for the Hospital since December 2017.

29. In April 2017, Individual 9 was in the O.R. with Patient 1, when Patient 1 was
anesthetized, and the Respondent came into the room. Individual 9 testified that the Respondent
was “slapping [the patient’s] rear end and dancing around and saying -- like singing the butt song
[“Baby’s Got Back”] or whatever.” (State’s Ex. 7, T. 16.)

30. Individual 9 also observed the Respondent constantly hugging staff, massaging
their necks, and asking them about their sex lives.

Proceedings

31. In June 2018, counsel for Complainant 2 sent a letter (“Demand Letter’) to the

Respondent stating that the Respondent had sexually harassed Complainant 2. The Demand
Letter attached draft filings with the EEOC and a circuit court in Maryland. The Demand Letter
asked for five million dollars in exchange for Complainant 2 not filing actions and complaints
against the Respondent. The Respondent did not pay Complainant 2.

32. On October 4, 2018, Complainant 2 met with a person from the Hospital’s Human
Resources department and the Hospital’s perioperative director to discuss the Respondent’s
behavior.

33. In October 12, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a lawsuit in a circuit court in Maryland
against the Respondent, the Respondent’s private practice, and the Hospital, alleging sexual
harassment, assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.”

34. On October 16, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a formal complainant against the
Respondent with the Hospital’s Human Resources department.

35. As a result of the lawsuit filed in circuit court, the Hospital’s Performance
Improvement Committee appointed an Ad Hoc Committee to investigate the allegations in the
lawsuit against the Respondent. The Ad Hoc Committee interviewed the Respondent and a
number of other individuals involved in the surgical units of the Hospital. The Ad Hoc
Committee wrote that it did not consider the incident in which the Respondent slapped the
buttocks of Patient 1, because the incident “involved a patient” and thus the Ad Hoc Committee
“did not consider this incident to be within the specific scope of its investigation,” but the report
did state that the Respondent “acknowledged the incident, though he explained it by saying that
he was not happy with the way the patient was taped, removed the tape and moved the patient’s
buttocks.” The report also did not reference the incident involving Individual 4 in which the
Respondent tried to get her to touch his penis. But the report did mention that two Hospital
employees stated that the Respondent put his hands around the neck of a female staff member,

? At the time of the evidentiary hearing at OAH, the lawsuit was still ongoing.
9
and one of those employees stated that the Respondent refused to let go “even when she asked
him to.” The report further stated that Complainant 2 had not previously reported incidents of
inappropriate behavior to the Human Resources department because “she feared losing her job or
other repercussions.” The report also mentioned that, in addition to Complainant 2, other
employees interviewed said that the Hospital O.R. had a culture that was inhospitable to
complaints against physicians.
36. On March 6, 2019, the Hospital issued the Respondent a Letter of Reprimand.
The Letter of Reprimand stated:
Based on the investigation, the Ad Hoc Committee, Performance
Improvement Committee, and Medical Executive Committee concluded
that you had behaved inappropriately towards members of the Hospital
staff by inappropriate touching female employees and by making
inappropriate comments of a sexual nature to female employees. The
Committees felt that you lacked an appreciation for how your behavior
was perceived and exercised extremely poor judgment in your lack of
appreciation for appropriate boundaries of professional behavior. Your
behavior and words were seriously inappropriate.
The Hospital required the Respondent to attend a course in Professional Boundaries and advised
the Respondent that his behavior would be “monitored. However, any further reports of this type
of unacceptable behavior, at any time in the future, would be reviewed for additional disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of medical staff appointment and/or clinical privileges.”
The Letter of Reprimand further stated that the Letter of Reprimand “will not be reported to the
Maryland Board of Physicians” and that “this action does not constitute grounds for a hearing.”
37. On August 30, 2020, the Board received a complaint from Complainant ! (dated
August 25, 2020). In her complaint, Complainant 1 alleged that, when she worked with the
Respondent at the Hospital, the Respondent behaved inappropriately, both verbally and

physically, with Complainant 1 and other female staff members.

10
