 

 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

HUGO BENALCAZAR, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D56356 * Case Number: 2221-0051

He Fee eee ek ei oe ea eR RIO IO Ok koe ek ek dea ek de ae oe ea koe oe ak

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Hugo Benalcazar, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D56356, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-
226(c) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), concluding that the public health, safety, or welfare

imperatively requires emergency action.
INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS!

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by, and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:

+ The statements regarding Panel A’s investigative findings are intended to provide the Respondent with reasonable
notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description
of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with this matter.
L BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

 

medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to
practice medicine in Maryland on August 3, 2000, under License Number
D56356. The Respondent’s license is current through September 30, 2022.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in neurological surgery.

3. The Respondent is the proprietor and sole practitioner of a neurosurgery,
physical therapy and pain management practice in Harford County, Maryland.
The Respondent also holds privileges at four hospitals in the Baltimore
metropolitan area.”

Il. THE COMPLAINTS

4. On or about September 3, 2020, the Board received a complaint (“Complaint 1”)
from a surgical nurse and former colleague of the Respondent (“Complainant
1”). In her complaint, Complainant 1 alleged that when she worked with the
Respondent at a hospital in Harford County, Maryland (the “Hospital”’) the
Respondent behaved inappropriately, both verbally and physically, with herself
and other female staff members. Complainant | stated that the Respondent

would touch her on a daily basis, which included rubbing her shoulders and back,

? To ensure confidentiality and privacy, the names of individuals and entities involved in this case, other than the
Respondent, are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of all individuals/entities
referenced in this document by contacting the Administrative Prosecutor.

2
rear end and dancing around and...singing the butt song... ‘Baby’s Got
Back’, or something like that.”

b. He observed the Respondent constantly hugging staff, massaging their
necks, and asking them about their sex lives.

 

20. Board staff interviewed other current or former colleagues of the Respondent
who corroborated the Respondent’s reputation for being touchy with staff

members, and/or making inappropriate comments to staff members.

The Respondent

21.On or about May 21, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
the Respondent. In the interview, the Respondent stated:

a. He would typically greet staff when he arrived at the O.R. by touching
their cap or their neck and expected that staff would be comfortable
expressing their discomfort if they were so inclined.

b. There was non-sexual touching from both sides in his interactions with
Complainant |. He denied making unprofessional comments toward her
or telling her to put any surgical instruments into her mouth.

c. He acknowledged touching Complainant 2’s hands and neck at her
request because “touch is a calming thing.” He stated that none of his
comments to Complainant 2 were meant in a sexual way, and if they
talked about sex, it was primarily in the context of her pregnancy.

d. Complainant 2 asked him to examine her for joint dysfunction and he did
so to be courteous but will not ever do so again. He took her into a room
to examine her because it was not appropriate to do it in the hallway. He
asked her to loosen her waistband and pull it down a little bit. Afterwards,
Complainant 2 seemed to be thankful, not offended.

e. He denied pulling Individual 4 into an empty office and trying to make
her touch his erection.

f. In April 2017 he did not slap the patient’s buttocks but was illustrating to
staff that they had placed a frame in an incorrect position. “I said look,
the buttock tissue moves like this...you have to touch the tissue...it’s
moving here. Here it’s not moving.” He denied making any inappropriate
comments about the patient’s body.

 

11
 

22. Following this interview, Respondent’s counsel informed Board staff that the
Respondent had recalled additional information. A second under-oath interview
of the Respondent was conducted on May 25, 2021. In this interview, the

Respondent stated:

a. That he initially did not recall Individual 4 because he called her by her
nickname “Strawberry.” He acknowledged bringing her coffee and stated
that the two of them began a romantic relationship outside of work. He
recalled an occasion wherein he invited her into his administrative office,
and she drove there specifically to have an encounter with him. The
Respondent stated that he ended the relationship after Individual 4
demanded money from him.

b. He could not tell Board staff the whole truth in the first interview not
because he could not remember, but because he had to “put some type of
coherent thing together.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter
of law that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency
action in this case, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t. § 10-226(c)(2) (2014

Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. (““COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).
ORDER
It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by Md. Code
Ann., State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR_ 10.32.02.08B(7)(a), the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, is hereby

SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and be it further

12
ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7) on the Summary Suspension will be held on Wednesday, July 14,
2021, at 12:30 p.m. before Panel A at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201

Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation hearing before
Panel A, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request
within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30)
days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt

Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed
with the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014

Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Disciplinary Panel A, and, as such, is a
PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Provisions §4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

07/02/2021 .
Date Christine A. Farrelly 3 U

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

13
 

and that he would often comment on her undergarments. She complained that
the Respondent once touched her “skin at the V-neck in her scrub shirt while
looking her in the eyes.” Complainant 1 detailed an incident in the operating
room (the “O.R.”) when some ball-shaped instrumentation fell to the floor and
the Respondent stated to her “why don’t you put them in your mouth.”
Complainant | stated that she reported some of her concerns about the
Respondent through to Hospital authorities, but no disciplinary action was taken.
5. On or about November 30, 2020, Board staff received a complaint (“Complaint
2”) from a surgical technologist (“Complainant 2”) who previously worked with
the Respondent at the Hospital. Complainant 2 described an incident taking
place on April 19, 2017, when she was working with the Respondent in the
operating room with a patient anesthetized and lying face-down on the operating
table. The Respondent came into the O.R. and began making “extremely
unprofessional and inappropriate remarks” about the patient’s body. The
Respondent commented on “her butt shape saying how round it was, how nice
it looked for her age,” then forcefully smacked the patient’s backside.

. Complainant 2 went on to describe an incident wherein she was experiencing
severe lower back pain while she was assisting the Respondent in performing a
procedure. The Respondent asked Complainant 2 if she would like him to “cheek
[her] out in between cases.” Complainant 2 stated that she would, and the
Respondent later escorted her into an empty office and began to examine her.

Complainant 2 stated that while touching her lower back and “without

3
 

 

TL.

permission or hesitation he lifts up [her] scrub shirt and tells [her] to loosen [her]
pants.” Complainant 2 stated that because she trusted the Respondent to behave
like a professional, she complied and loosened her pants. She further stated that
“without warning he pulled [her] underwear down...he then started commenting
on how “cute” [her] underwear was and how “nice” [she] looked from where he
was standing. The entire time still touching [her] lower back and butt.”
Complainant 2 stated that she felt “mortified,” pulled herself together and left

the room.

. On or about December 29, 2020, Board staff received another complaint

(“Complaint 3”) from Complainant 2. In Complaint 3, she stated that, among
other things, the Respondent has a reputation of “being very flirtatious and very
forward with ‘pretty girls.”’ Complainant 2 stated that the Respondent touches
her “multiple times a day every time [she is] with him but [she doesn’t] know
what to do about it.” Complainant 2 also stated that she had previously heard the
Respondent threaten nurses before saying that he “all he has to do is say the word
and he will have them fired.”

BOARD INVESTIGATION

. The Board conducted an investigation of the Respondent’s conduct, and as part

of its investigation, Board staff conducted under-oath interviews with twelve
current and former colleagues of the Respondent. In addition, Board staff

subpoenaed the Respondent’s personnel records from the various institutions at
which he has worked and conducted an under-oath interview with the
Respondent.

9. The Board’s investigation determined that for a period of several years, the
Respondent engaged in a pattern of unprofessional conduct that included, but
was not limited to, sexual harassment of hospital staff, both verbal and physical,
sexual propositioning, and unconsented-to physical contact of at least one
patient. The Respondent’s conduct proceeded largely unchecked over a period
of time due in-part to staff members’ perceptions that any complaints about his
conduct would not be acted upon at the organizational level.

10. The investigation of the Respondent’s conduct is set forth in pertinent part

below.

 

Complainant 1

11.On or about January 20, 2021, Board staff conducted an interview with
Complainant 1, a surgical nurse who worked at the Hospital from 2004 through
2018. In the under-oath interview, Complainant 1 stated:

a. For a while her working relationship with the Respondent was
unremarkable. Eventually the Respondent began to make comments
about her underwear saying, “sometimes you just lean down, your scrubs
are loose and say whoa, | see your pink underwear, your black underwear
or whatever it is...it was never really any more than that until the one
day.”

b. She described an incident during a procedure where they were using a
piece of equipment that “has all these silver balls on it.” She stated that at
the end of the case the balls fell on the floor, so she picked one of them
up and put it in the Respondent’s pocket. The Respondent then asks
Complainant | “why don’t you put them in your mouth?” Complainant 1

5
 

 

Complainant 2

responded by telling the Respondent, “that’s gross.” After that exchange,
Complainant 2 went over to the computer to finish her paperwork when
the Respondent approached her and put his hand in the V-neck area of
her scrub shirt and “touched the top of [her] chest in the cleavage area.”

She reported the incident to the Nursing Director and the two of them had
a meeting with the Respondent. During the meeting, Complainant 1 told
the Respondent that he was inappropriate and unprofessional and asked
him not to touch her again. Complainant | stated that during the meeting
the Respondent “just kind of blew [her] off.”

Complainant | stated that after the meeting with the Nursing Director, the
Respondent did not speak to her very much.

12.On or about December 28, 2020, Board staff conducted an interview with

Complainant 2, a nurse technologist who worked with the Respondent at the

Hospital. In her under-oath interview, Complainant 2 stated:

a. She previously worked in the O.R. with the Respondent exclusively two

days per week, and that “he just had a way of commanding the room and
making people feel incompetent.” She described the Respondent’s
conduct as “disrespectful” and “extremely degrading towards others.”

In or around 2016, she was pregnant and suffering from severe lower back
pain while she was in the O.R. with the Respondent. While she was
discussing her pain with one of her colleagues, the Respondent overheard
and interjected, offering to examine her. The Respondent took her into an
empty room and grabbed her lower back. He told her that he needed to
get a better feel, so she needed to lift her scrub shirt up. She lifted her
shirt “about midway to [her] back.” He then told her that “in order to
really see where [her] pain was coming from [she] needed to lower [her]
pants.” She described lowering her pants midway down and holding them
because she did not want to lower them all the way. The Respondent then
put his hands around her waist and used his thumbs to pinpoint on her
lower back, “he was touching [her] butt...pushing on my underwear and
that’s when he made the comments about how nice everything looked and
how he liked [her underwear].” At this point she pulled her pants up, the
Respondent started giggling, and she left the room.

6
c. The Respondent would ask her about her sex life with her fiancée. He
would talk to her about the size of his genitals and offer comparisons of
his genitals to surgical instruments.

d. The Respondent would look down her shirt and other staff member’s
shirts and comment on their undergarments. He would state to her,
“You're wearing my favorite bra.” She stated she would offer only short
responses or state that she was not in the mood for his behavior.

 

e. During Halloween season the Respondent would show her pictures of
provocative costumes on his phone suggesting that she should wear them.
She stated that there were multiple times when the Respondent would
take pictures of her with his phone. He would remove her eyewear and
photograph her eyes. He said he wanted to “stare at them later.”

f. On April 19, 2017, she witnessed the Respondent hit a patient’s buttocks
after making inappropriate comments about the patient’s body while the
patient was anesthetized and lying face down on the operating table. “He
just started commenting about how nice her butt looked, especially in this
position that we had her in for surgery...he proceeded to say her butt
looked so good I just needed to be smacked...and before we knew it, he
did it. He smacked her butt. Started giggling.”

 

g. The Respondent would talk about getting people fired which caused
Complainant 2 to be afraid to report him. She stated that she asked her
supervisors to change her schedule but did not state that it was because
of the Respondent. She believed that her supervisors knew the reason that
she wanted to change because she had told them many times before about
how uncomfortable she was, but they would never ask why.

Individual 3

13.On or about February 5, 2021, Board staff conducted an interview with
Individual 3, an administrative assistant, who had worked with the Respondent
since he started practicing at the Hospital. In her under-oath interview,

Individual 3 stated:
 

 

 

a.

Individual 4

The Respondent behaves in a manner that is very arrogant, very pompous
and womanizing. Multiple staff members reported to her that they were
uncomfortable working with him.

Complainant 2 expressed to her multiple times that she did not like the
Respondent and did not want to work with him but was initially wary of
reporting him out of fear of losing her job.

She observed once instance where the Respondent was interacting with
Complainant 2 and said to her, “I’d like to put you over my knee and
spank you, spank you, spank you...and she just rolled her eyes and
walked away.”

14. On or about February 11, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview

with Individual 4, an Operating Room Secretary who previously worked with

the Respondent. In her interview, Individual 4 stated:

a.

Individual 5

She changed her work schedule to avoid the Respondent after his
interactions with her started to become “eerie.” The Respondent would
call her by a nickname “Strawberry” and began bringing her coffee
without her asking him to do so. He began calling her frequently when
she was working and texting her personal cell phone. The Respondent
would make comments about her body and her attire. In one instance he
stated “for a skinny girl, you have a nice butt.”

The Respondent once telephoned her at work while he was sitting a short
distance away from her and asked her to come sit on his lap.

. While she was walking down a hallway, the Respondent grabbed her and

pulled her into an office and closed the door. “I said no, eight times super
loud before he let me out of that room.” She stated that the Respondent
had an erection and was trying to get her to sit on his lap and touch it.

The Respondent once followed her to her car while screaming her name.
She ran to her car and called a friend who worked in security and asked
him to meet her at her car so that she could hide for a few minutes.
15.On or about March 5, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
Individual 5, a nurse who previously worked with the Respondent. In her

interview, Individual 5 stated:

a. She worked in the O.R. with the Respondent and found him to be
disrespectful, inappropriate, and unprofessional.

b. In 2017 she was present in the O.R. when the Respondent slapped the
buttocks of the anesthetized patient referenced above. She reported the
incident because “that’s not typical behavior of a surgeon.”

c. Working in the O.R. with the Respondent made her feel “impaired”
because in addition to her responsibilities to the patient she had to worry
about avoiding conversations with the Respondent, which is impossible
in a surgical area, but the Respondent’s conduct made it a very difficult
working environment.

Individual 6

16.On or about February 2, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview

with Individual 6, a technologist who previously worked with the Respondent.

In her interview, Individual 6 stated:

a. At the beginning of her time working with the Respondent she was told
by colleagues “you'll be fine” working with the Respondent because “he
just likes being around pretty women.” Individual 6 stated that she
understood that to mean that she should be “on guard” while working
with the Respondent.

b. She described the Respondent as “very touchy,” and stated that he
attempted to massage her neck on multiple occasions. The Respondent
would touch other staff members on their lower backs and would make
inappropriate comments about patients’ bodies.

c. She observed the Respondent getting “really close” and whispering to
Complainant 2. Individual 6 stated that this made her feel uncomfortable,
so she looked away and started working on her computer. After the
Respondent left the room Complainant 2 approached her and asked, “did
you see that?” Individual 6 responded that she did not because she was
looking away. Complainant 2 told Individual 6 that the Respondent “got
in [her] face,” and asked that in the future “please don’t turn around when
he gets this close to me.”
Individual 7

17. On or about March 4, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
Individual 7, a Hospital staff member who worked in the Respondent’s O.R. In
her interview, Individual 7 stated:

a. She knew the Respondent as a surgeon in the O.R. who made her feel
uncomfortable.

b. On one occasion, the Respondent remarked to her that she had a “cute
little butt that could squeeze through the doorway.”

c. Individual 4 told Individual 7 that the Respondent also made her feel
uncomfortable calling her by the nickname “Strawberry,” and on one
occasion had followed her into the parking garage.

Individual 8

18.On or about February 24, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview
with Individual 8, a nurse who worked with the Respondent. In her interview,
Individual 8 stated:

a. Many of her colleagues expressed a reluctance to work in the
Respondent’s O.R., and that she sometimes felt uncomfortable for others
because the Respondent tends to be very flirtatious.

b. She observed the Respondent asking Complainant 2 to go to the movies
with him and commenting on her body.

c. The last time she remembers working with Complainant 2 was when
Complainant 2 asked that Individual 8 not leave her alone in the O.R.
with the Respondent.

Individual 9

19.On or about January 11, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview

with Individual 9, a Physician Assistant who worked with the Respondent. In his
interview, Individual 9 stated:

a. They had a patient in the O.R. prepared for a surgical procedure when the

Respondent came into the room and did not like how Individual 9 had
prepared the patient’s buttocks area. The Respondent “starts slapping her

10
