 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

HUGO BENALCAZAR, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D56356 * Case Number: 2221-0051

* * * * * * * * * * * % *.

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
ON AMENDED CHARGES

On August 27, 2021, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) issued Amended Charges Under the Maryland Medical Practice Act,! which charged
Respondent Hugo Benalcazar, M.D. (the “Respondent” or “Dr. Benalcazar”) with immoral
conduct in the practice of medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(); unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(iD); and violations of the sexual misconduct
regulations, see Health Occ. § 1-212; COMAR 10.32.17 et seq.

A contested case, evidentiary hearing was held before an Administrative Law Judge
(“ALJ”) of the Maryland Office of Administrative Hearings. On October 12, 2022, the ALJ issued
a Proposed Decision with the proposed conclusions of law that the Respondent was guilty of:
immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i); and
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). The ALJ also
found that the Respondent violated the sexual misconduct regulations. See COMAR 10.32.17 et
seq. As a sanction, the ALJ proposed that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland be revoked and that the Respondent may not apply for the reinstatement of his license

until one-year has passed from the date of the revocation order.

' The Maryland Medical Practice Act is under §§ 14-101 ~ 14-702 of the Health Occupations
Article, Annotated Code of Maryland.
 

The Respondent filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision, and the State filed a
response to the Respondent’s exceptions. On January 25, 2023, an exceptions hearing was held
before Board Disciplinary Panel B (the “Panel” or “Panel B”).

STIPULATION OF FACT

The parties entered into the following stipulation of fact:

The Respondent was not responsible for actual sterilization and sanitization of or

handling or applying any cleaning supply, antiseptic, or other sterilization product

and that function was unique to the housekeeping staff.!?!

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B finds that the following facts were proved by the preponderance of evidence?:
Background

1. The Respondent, a neurosurgeon, was initially issued a license to practice medicine
in Maryland in 2000. At the time of the Board’s investigation in this matter, the Respondent was
board-certified in neurosurgery and held privileges at multiple hospitals in Maryland. The
Respondent maintained his license and was authorized to practice medicine in Maryland until July
2021, which was when Disciplinary Panel A of the Board summarily suspended the Respondent's
Maryland medical license.

2. As part of his medical practice, the Respondent performed craniotomies; lumbar
laminectomies; brain, back, and neck surgeries; ventricular shunts, and other neurological surgery
procedures.

3. The Respondent also maintained a private practice office in Maryland.

2 Panel B accepts the stipulation.
3 All of Panel B’s factual findings in this decision were proved by the preponderance of
evidence.
50. The Respondent entered the exam room, shut the door, and introduced himself
Individual 10 said, “Hey, do you remember me? I’m [Individual 10] from [the Baltimore area
hospital].” The Respondent became jovial. He sat down on a round stool that had no back on it
that wheeled. He wheeled over to Individual 10 and touched both of her breasts with one hand
with open fingers on each breast and said, “I’ve always wanted to do this.”

51. Individual 10 said, “Oh stop.” She did not consent to the Respondent touching her
breasts, and there was no medical reason for the Respondent to touch her breasts.*

52. The Respondent removed his hands. He and Individual 10 discussed her films that
she had brought or sent to his office. The Respondent showed Individual 10 the cyst and his
recommendation for its surgical removal.

53. The Respondent asked Individual 10 to stand up so he could examine her back. She
was fully clothed. The Respondent then told how “nice” her “ass” was.

54, Individual 10 giggled nervously and said, “Oh, stop.” The Respondent excused her
to make a surgery appointment at the desk. An appointment was made for her to have surgery on
March 29, 2017, at the Hospital.

55. Individual 10 did not tell anyone at the time about what happened at the
Respondent’s private practice office.

56. On March 29, 2017, Individual 10 went to the Hospital for the scheduled surgery.
Her sister accompanied her.

57. She went into the pre-surgical area, where patients are prepared for surgery.

58. A woman put her in a room and told her to undress, put non-slip socks on Individual

10’s feet, and gave her a blanket for covering up. The room had a curtain for access. Individual

8 See footnote 6.

11
 

10 asked to stay flat on the stretcher because she could not sit at the time. The woman took her
vital signs.

59, Individual 10 was wearing a hospital gown, which was open in the back, socks, and
a blanket. She was not wearing undergarments.

60. A pre-op nurse came in and went over Individual 10’s medications and past
surgeries. Individual 10 was told the Respondent would be in soon, followed by anesthesia and
the OR nurse. While Individual 10 was in the pre-op room, an IV line was inserted.

61. Individual 10’s sister was sitting in the room on Individual 10’s left side.

62. The Respondent entered the pre-op room and asked everyone to step out so he could
mark Individual 10’s back. In the pre-op room at that time were Individual 10, her sister and the
pre-op nurse. When her sister and the pre-op nurse stepped out, the Respondent took the marker.

63. | The Respondent had the marker in his left hand. With his left hand, he quickly
lifted the blanket and the patient’s gown and, with the closed index and middle fingers of his right
hand, touched the top of Individual 10°s vagina. Individual 10 did not consent to the Respondent
touching her vagina, and there was no medical reason for the Respondent to touch her vagina.?
The Respondent was ungloved in the pre-op room. There was no vaginal penetration. .

64. — Individual 10 hit the Respondent’s hand and said, “Stop it. What are you doing?”

65. He then laughed and took his fingers to his nose and inhaled, smelling his fingers.
Individual 10 said, “Please stop. I am very nervous. And this is making it worse.” Then the
Respondent laughed and told Individual 10 to sit up so he could mark her back.

66. Individual 10 sat up. The Respondent marked her back and left the room. ‘When

he left the room, Individual 10’s sister, an anesthesiologist, and the OR nurse came in. The

” See footnote 6.
 

 

anesthesia consent was signed. The OR nurse asked Individual 10 her name and birthdate and if
she knew what kind of surgery she was having.

67. After the Respondent interacted with Individual 10 in the pre-op room and the
anesthesia consent was signed, Individual 10 received the medication Midazolam, whose trade
name is Versed. Versed can produce amnesia. Individual 10 had not yet been administered the
Versed when she saw the Respondent or when she signed the anesthesia consent. She received
Versed either in the pre-op room after the interaction with the Respondent or on the way to the OR
or in the OR.

68. The cyst removal surgery was performed, after which Individual 10 was taken to
the recovery room. Her pain had vanished, but she was unable to stand. The Respondent was
called and said the nerve was angry but that would go away.

69. Individual 10 was discharged the same day, March 29, 2017.

70. Ina post-operative follow-up telephone call from a person at the Hospital, on March
30, 2017, Individual 10 rated her “overall experience” at the Hospital as “Excellent.”

71. On March 31, 2017, Individual 10 returned to the Hospital, where the Respondent
performed a second surgery. The reason for the second surgery was that, after the first surgery,
Individual 10’s pain continued to worsen when she stood and she had trouble walking from the
pain. On March 31, 2017, the date of the second surgery, Individual 10 asked the Respondent if
her former fiancé, a Medtronic representative, would be present during the operation. She asked
because the second operation involved the placement of screws and a tod to stabilize her back.
Individual 10’s first surgery did not involve screws and a rod, it involved only the removal of the

synovial cyst.

13

 
72. Asa Medtronic representative, Individual 10’s former fiancé dealt with screws and
rods. The former fiancé’s presence in the OR would have made Individual 10 uncomfortable.

73. In response to Individual 10 asking before the second surgery if her former fiancé
would be present, the Respondent said the former fiancé would not be there for her case. The
former fiancé was not present.

74. In the second surgery, the Respondent successfully installed screws and a rod on
her right side to stabilize Individual 10’s back.

75. On July 11, 2021, Individual 10 emailed to the Board a complaint (Complaint 5)
against the Respondent, in which she alleged that the Respondent touched her vagina and smelled
his fingers prior to her first March 2017 operation.

Individual 4

76. — Individual 4, a woman, began working at the Hospital as an environmental services
(“EVS”) aide in November 2013. After progressing to team leader, she worked as an OR EVS
aide and a patient advocate for EVS. As a patient advocate, she would confirm with newly
admitted patients that their room was clean and ask if they had any concerns. She applied for and
obtained the position of OR secretary and served in that capacity from December 2015 through
July 2016.

77. As an OR secretary, Individual 4’s responsibilities were scheduling surgeons’
operations, updating the charge nurse about supplies and paperwork, and making sure the proper
staff were present.

78. Individual 4’s first interaction with the Respondent was when she was a patient
advocate, before she became a secretary. She was in business travel clothes with a clipboard. The

Respondent approached her, looked her up and down, and said, “Oh you’re wearing black on black.

14
 

I like that.” Individual 4 was uncomfortable and did not know if she knew who the Respondent
was.

79. Shortly after Individual 4 began working part-time in the OR, the Respondent
walked by her and said he was going to call her “Strawberry” as a nickname, which he did not
explain but which was an apparent reference to her strawberry blonde hair. He called her
Strawberry in passing once or twice a day while she was working in the OR, which was two days
a week. Individual 4 found the nickname distracting.

80. While Individual 4 was an EVS OR aide, the Respondent told her, “For a skinny
girl you have a really nice butt.”

81. The Respondent brought Individual 4 coffee twice after she asked him not to. He
asked her three times if she wanted to go to the nearby Starbucks with him. She declined each
time.

82. On one occasion, the Respondent called Individual 4 from a phone about 15 feet
away from Individual 4’s area and asked her to come over and sit on his lap. She responded by
asking the Respondent if he knew the phones were recorded (they were not).

83. Individual 4 reported to the Hospital’s director of perioperative services that the
Respondent was making her uncomfortable by calling her Strawberry and sitting down next to her
desk, and it was making her anxious at work. She did not mention that he asked her to sit on his
lap because she felt she had handled it by indicating to him that the phones were recorded. .

84, The director of perioperative services listened and said that she would supervise
Individual 4 better and keep an eye on the Respondent.

85. Another time, the Respondent commented approvingly on a tank top Individual 4

was wearing under her scrubs.
86. One day, about three or four months before Individual 4 left the OR in 2016, as
Individual 4 went home for the day and was on the hospital’s parking deck, the Respondent said,
“Strawberry[,] wait.” She ran and hid in her car and called the EVS supervisor to ask him to have
security keep an eye on the parking deck from the cameras at the exit.

87. Individual 4 left her job at the Hospital in July 2016.

88. Complainant 2 told Individual 4 that she (Complainant 2) had hired an attorney, and
Individual 4 called the attorney.

89. In 2020 or 2021, Individual 4 suffered a concussion that caused memory
impairment.

90. A topless selfie photo of Individual 4 that she took at her current home in another
State after she no longer worked at the Hospital came into the Respondent’s possession.

Individual 6

91. — Individuai 6, a woman, is a neuromonitoring tech who worked successively for two
companies that provided neuromonitoring services to the Hospital’s OR. Individual 6 worked with
the Respondent in his OR. Her function was to use technology to monitor patients’ spinal cord,
nerve and brain activity during surgery so the surgeon could avoid impinging on or cutting a
patient’s nerve and know if the patient was in distress. She would attach electrodes to the patient
and monitor her screen while the Respondent operated.

92. On three occasions, the Respondent touched Individual 6’s shoulders while she was
at her desk before surgeries as if'to give a massage. She did not consent to the Respondent touching

her shoulders.

:
:

 
 

 

|
|
|
|

93. On one occasion, the Respondent found fault with Individual 6 for leaving the OR
for a comfort break. Shortly after, Individual 6 stopped working at the Hospital but continued her
employment with the neuromonitoring company that employed her.

94. Individual 6 spoke once with Complainant 2’s attorney when the attorney called
her.

Individual 7

95, From 2014-2016, Individual 7, a woman, worked at the Hospital as an OR
housekeeper.

96. On one occasion, the Respondent followed Individual 7 into the OR and said, “It’s
a good thing you have that cute little butt so you can squeeze through.” .

Individual 11

97. From November 2017 to August 2018, Individual 11 was a circulating nurse in the
OR at the Hospital.

98. On one occasion, the Respondent came from behind Individual 11 and tickled her
sides, She recoiled, and the Respondent said he guessed she did not like that. She said she did not
like being touched. Ile never touched her again.

99, On another occasion, the Respondent commented on how her pants looked tight.

Complainant 2’s Attorney’s Demand Letter, Complainant 2’s Lawsuit,
and the Hospital’s Investigation

100. On June 7, 2018, attorneys representing Complainant 2, sent a letter (“Demand
Letter”) to the Respondent. Through her attorneys, Complainant 2 demanded that the Respondent
pay her $5,000,000 over two years in exchange for a nondisclosure agreement and her release of
all sexual harassment and other claims against the Respondent. The Demand Letter stated that

only Complainant 2 and her husband knew she had spoken with an attorney and that she had not

17
 

yet spoken with the Hospital in regard to her possible future legal action. The Demand Letter
further stated that. if Complainant 2’s demand was not met within 14 days, she would take the
following actions: notify the Hospital’s HR department and request an investigation of the
Respondent, file a formal charge against him with the Equal Employment Opportunities
Commission (EEOC), file a lawsuit against the Respondent in the Circuit Court for Harford
County, “send the letter with attachments sent to the EEOC to the Maryland Board of Physicians,”
and reserve the right to seek any and all other remedies available to her under the law of the State
of Maryland whether they were civil and/or criminal in nature as applicable to the facts of the
matter.

101. The Respondent declined to make a payment to Complainant 2 in response to the
Demand Letter.

102, In October 2018, Complainant 2 reported her allegations against the Respondent to
the Hospital’s HR department.

103. On October 12, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a lawsuit in the Circuit Court for Harford
County against the Respondent, the Respondent’s private practice, and the Hospital as defendants.
She alleged sexual harassment and other claims. The lawsuit remains pending.

104. Following Complainant 2’s report and the Hospital’s learning of her lawsuit, the
Hospital appointed an Ad Hoc Committee to investigate the allegations against the Respondent.
On March 6, 2019, the Ad Hoc Committee issued a report and a letter of reprimand to the
Respondent.

105. The authorship of the Ad Hoc Committee’s report is unknown, except that the

committee members themselves did not write the report.

18
 

106. The Respondent attended a course in professional boundaries, and the Hospital
monitored his behavior. There have been no complaints or allegations of misconduct against the
Respondent for any conduct after 2017.

107. Complainant 1 and Complainant 2 drafted their Complaints against the Respondent.
Complainant 1 filed her Complaint, on August 30, 2020. Complainant 2 dated her three
Complaints in August 2020, but filed her first two Complaints, in November 2020, and her third
Complaint, in December 2020. In July 2021, Individual 10 emailed her Complaint to the Board.

DISCUSSION
I. LEGAL AUTHORITIES AND STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

The grounds for imposing a reprimand, probation, or suspension or revocation of a license
under the Maryland Medical Practice Act are set forth under § 14-404 of the Health Occupations
Article and include the following:

Health Occ. § 14-404
(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle,
a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the

quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand, place any licensee
on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
co * *
(3) Is guilty of:
(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicinef.]

The Maryland Medical Practice Act provides a statutory definition of “practice medicine”:
Health Occ. § 14-101(0)

(1) “Practice medicine” means to engage, with or without
compensation, in medical:
(i) Diagnosis;
(ii) Healing;
(iti) Treatment; or
(iv) Surgery.

19
 

(2) “Practice medicine” includes doing, undertaking, professing
to do, and attempting any of the following: :

(i) Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing -
for, or removing any physical, mental, or emotional ailment of an
individual:

1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that
is exercised or invoked by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or .

The scope of “in the practice of medicine,” in the context of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3),
was broadened in Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59 (1999), where the
court rejected Dr. Banks’ argument that his sexual harassment of co-workers in a hospital was not
“in the practice of medicine.” While Dr. Banks’ misconduct did not occur simultaneously with
him performing a medical procedure on any patient and did involve non-direct care employees of
the hospital, the court ruled that his behavior was “sufficiently intertwined with patient care to
constitute misconduct in the practice of medicine.” Jd. at 76-77.

In Shirazi v. Maryland State Board of Physicians, 199 Md. App. 469 (2011), without
medical purpose and without the patients’ consents, the physician placed his fingers inside the
vaginas of four patients and, in two cases, smelled his fingers immediately afterward. The Board
found the physician guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine and
revoked his license. The Court of Special Appeals affirmed the Board’s decision.

In Finucan v. Board of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577 (2004), the court
affirmed the Board’s decision to revoke Dr. Finucan’s medical license for unprofessional or
immoral conduct in the practice of medicine for having consensual sexual relationships with three
patients he was actively treating. The court found that unprofessional conduct or immoral conduct

refers to “‘conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of a profession, or conduct which is

unbecoming a member in good standing of a profession.’” Jd. at 593.

20
 

4. The pertinent events in this matter took place at a hospital (the “Hospital”), which
is located in Maryland, and at the Respondent’s private practice office, which was also in
Maryland. And the pertinent events involved employees and medical professionals, who worked
at the Hospital, as well as patients of the Hospital. The Respondent performed neurological
surgical procedures in an operating room (“OR”) at the Hospital. Personnel in the OR during his
surgeries typically included an anesthesiologist or a certified registered nurse anesthetist, a surgical
nurse, a physician assistant, an OR nurse, a circulating nurse, a surgical technologist, a medical
device manufacturer’s representative, and a neuromonitoring technician.

Complaint No. 1, filed by Complainant 1

5. Complainant 1, a woman, is a veteran surgical nurse, who was employed by the
Hospital from May 2004 to October 2018. During certain operations, the Respondent used the
Medtronic Stealth surgical navigation system. This high-tech system enables a surgeon to
precisely track the location of surgical instruments throughout the procedure. A key component
of the Stealth system is a reference frame that holds several gumball-sized balls or spheres coated
with a reflective, silver-colored surface (“Medtronic balls”). At the end of the procedure, the
Medtronic balls can be detached from the frame for either sterilization and reuse or disposal.

6. In or around 2013, after an operation performed by the Respondent at the Hospital
was completed and the patient was still anesthetized and asleep, Medtronic balls detached from
the reference frame, fell to the floor, and rolled. Several people were in the OR at the time,

including the Respondent, a manufacturer’s representative, one or two x-ray techs, and nurses,

4 This decision uses, where possible, generic terms and names for medical facilities and witnesses
in order to maintain confidentiality and privacy for the witnesses and patients involved in this
matter.
COMAR 10.32.02.16 states, “The Board and the disciplinary panels may consider the
Principles of Ethics [“Principles”] of the American Medical Association [“AMA”], but’ these
principles are not binding on the Board or the disciplinary panels.” The AMA’s Principles (as
revised in June 2001), provide:

I, A physician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical
care, with compassion and respect for human dignity and rights.

If. A physician shall uphold the standards of professionalism, be
honest in all professional interactions, and strive to report physicians
deficient in character or competence, or engaging in fraud or :
deception, to appropriate entities. , ‘

Hl. A physician shall respect the law and also recognize a

responsibility to seek changes in those requirements which are

contrary to the best interests of the patient.

IV. A physician shall respect the rights of patients, colleagues, and

other health professionals, and shall safeguard patient confidences

and privacy within the constraints of the law.

V. A physician shall continue to study, apply, and advance scientific

knowledge, maintain a commitment to medical education, make

relevant information available to patients, colleagues, and the

public, obtain consultation, and use the talents of other health

professionals when indicated.

VI. A physician shall, in the provision of appropriate patient care,

except in emergencies, be free to choose whom to serve, with whom

to associate, and the environment in which to provide medical care;

VI. A physician shall recognize a responsibility to participate in

activities contributing to the improvement of the community and the

betterment of public health.

VIIl. A physician shall, while caring for a patient, regard

responsibility to the patient as paramount.

IX. A physician shall support access to medical care for all people.

|

 

(State’s Ex. 31A, at S-530.)

The AMA’s Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs promulgates Opinions interpreting the
Principles. AMA Opinion 9.4.4 (2016) addresses “Physicians with Disruptive Behavior.” AMA
Opinion 9.4.4 provides in pertinent part:

The importance of respect among all health professionals as a means

of ensuring good patient care is foundational to ethics. Physicians
have a responsibility to address situations in which individual

21
 

physicians disruptively, that is, speak or act in ways that may

negatively affect patient care, including conduct that interferes with

the individual’s ability to work with other members of the health

care team, or for others to work with the physician.

Disruptive behavior is different from criticism offered in good faith

with the aim of improving patient care and from collective action on

the part of physicians.
(State’s Ex. 31, S-521-22.) AMA Opinion 9.045 (June 2000) states, in pertinent part, “Personal
conduct, whether verbal or physical, that negatively affects or that potentially may negatively
affect patient care constitutes disruptive behavior.” (State’s Ex. 31, S-520)

The ALJ also found violations of the sexual misconduct regulations. COMAR 10.32.17 et
seq. However, the sexual misconduct regulations that the ALJ addressed and which were cited in
the amended charges, were amended in 2019. Because these amended regulations went into effect
after the incidents at issue occurred, the amended regulations are inapplicable and thus the Panel
has not considered whether the Respondent violated these amended regulations. For this reason,
the Panel does not find that the Respondent violated COMAR 10.32.17 ef seq. (as amended May
20, 2019). However, a violation of the sexual misconduct regulations is not a requirement and is
not necessary for there to be a violation of § 14-404(a)(3) of the Health Occupations Article.

Il. PANEL B’S CREDIBILITY DETERMINATION OF THE RESPONDENT

There are several findings that depended upon credibility determinations. In making its
credibility determination of the Respondent, the Panel found the Respondent’s testimony
concerning three incidents especially significant: (A) the slapping of the anesthetized patient’s
buttocks, (B) the Respondent saying to Complainant 2 that he wanted to spank her, and (C) his

interactions with Individual 4.

A. Slapping Anesthetized Patient’s Buttocks

22
 

The Respondent testified that he did not slap the anesthetized patient at issue in Coniplaint
No. 2. The Respondent testified that he was annoyed at the taping that Individual 9 performed on
the patient for a framed navigational system and asked for the patient to be re-taped.'!° The
Respondent testified that he touched the patient’s buttocks, but he described the touching as part
ofa lesson on taping that he purportedly gave to the individuals working on the case:

Okay. So the contact would be at the speed and at the force of a

touch. The movement would be slow speed and if you put your

fingers in a vertical orientation, maybe you know, little kids might

do this and you know, think that it looks like a fishtail going back

and forth, my hand moved back and forth with only enough force to

move the patient’s tissue to illustrate the danger that was present

should someone rely on that for stereotactic navigation.
The Respondent did acknowledge that the other individuals watching him were shocked.
However, the Respondent testified that they were shocked, not because he slapped the patient, but
because he asked Individual 9 to take off the tape. The Respondent’s testimony on the incident
was fundamentally different from the testimony of the three people who testified for the State on
the incident (Individuals 5 and 9 and Complainant 2).

Individual 5, in a straightforward manner, testified about what she witnessed of the
incident, “He slapped her.” She testified as to how she determined it was a slap, “The sound and
the visual. It’s kind of hard to mistake a slap.” She further testified, “Made me feel extremely
uncomfortable. It honestly threw me into a state of shock when it happened, because I really didn’t
know how to respond to it at all. It had definitely been the first time I had ever encountered

something like that[.]” When asked again as to what she observed, Individual 5 testified, “I saw a

slap and heard the sound.”

'© When interviewed by Board investigators, Individual 9 stated that he re-taped the patient as he
had taped the patient the first time: “Yeah, it was exactly how I had it before.”

23
Individual 9 testified that he observed the Respondent slap the patient. According to
Individual 9, the Respondent “just sort of was walking around and he slapped it... .” Individual
9 also said that the Respondent slapped the patient’s buttocks while saying “baby’s got back” and
moving in a rhythmic manner. Individual 9 also said that he was “surprised” because “I’ve never
seen anybody do that in the operating room before.” When asked whether the Respondent gave
him any medical reason for slapping the patient’s buttocks, Individual 9 testified, “No.”

Complainant 2 testified that the Respondent “proceeded to smack his patient’s butt. All
the while laughing like it was a joke. Like giggling. He seemed very happy. He was very happy
about it.” Complainant 2 further testified, “I remember looking at [Individual 5]. And I was in
shock. I could not even believe what had transpired. That he would do such a thing to his patient

While the three witnesses for the State who testified to the slapping did have some
differences in certain details, those differences were relatively peripheral. At the core, their
statements were essentially the same. Each of the three witnesses testified that he or she saw the
Respondent slap the patient’s buttocks, that they were shocked or surprised that the Respondent
slapped the patient, and none of these three testified that the Respondent provided a medical reason
behind it, and they certainly did not testify that the Respondent gave a medical lesson to them that
related to him slapping or touching the patient’s buttocks. In contrast to the Respondent’s
testimony, none of the three testified that they were “shocked” because the Respondent asked
Individual 9 to remove the tape. To a major extent, each of these three witnesses corroborated
each other, while the Respondent’s testimony was in a different realm. Based upon the testimony
of Complainant 2 and Individuals 5 and 9, the Panel finds that the Respondent’s testimony on this

incident was false.

24
 

B. Respondent Telling Complainant 2 that Wanted to Spank Her
Complainant 2 testified that on one occasion she
walked out of the OR — towards the OR front desk to sit down. It
was near the end of my shift. Dr. Benalcazar shortly followed me
out saying that he wanted to, ‘take me over his knee and spank me.’”

Complainant 2’s testimony was corroborated by Individual 3, who testified that

Complainant 2
came out the room a little flustered, came up to where — it’s like a
counter where I sit. Shortly after that, Dr. Benalcazar came out and
stood next to her at the counter and looked at her and said I would
like to put you over me knee and spank you, spank you, spank you.

When asked about telling Complainant 2 that he wanted to take her over his knee and spank
her, the Respondent testified, “No. I do not recall that.” The evidence decisively shows that the
Respondent told Complainant 2 that he wanted to spank her. The Respondent’s testimony on this
incident indicates that the Respondent is not a reliable witness.

C. The Respondent and Individual 4

When the Respondent was initially interviewed by Board investigators, he was asked
whether he was “familiar” with Individual 4 (an OR secretary), who was referred to by her first
and last name. The Respondent answered, “No.” Individual 4’s last name was then spelled
(correctly) by the Respondent’s attorney. The Respondent still testified that he had no recollection
of Individual 4. The Board investigators mentioned that she avoided the Respondent after the
Respondent began bringing her coffee. Still, the Respondent said he had no recollection of her.
The investigators mentioned that she asked him to stop bringing her coffee because it made her

uncomfortable and asked the Respondent whether he brought her coffee. The Respondent

responded that he did have a “very little recollection of this but certainly possible that that would

25
 

 

 

be the case.” When asked whether he ever called someone by the nickname “Strawberry,” the
Respondent testified that he did recall that: “I called her that once because her hair was red.” Asked
whether the person whom he called Strawberry was Individual 4, the Respondent said he did not
remember.

About an hour after the interview, the Respondent’s counsel emailed a Board investigator
and said that the Respondent recalled “additional important information concerning [Individual
4}.” Thus, four days later, the Respondent was interviewed a second time.

At the second interview, the Respondent testified,

[Individual 4], I, 1 would bring coffee to [Individual 4]. I
didn’t know what kind of coffee she liked, you know, and people are
very particular about their coffee, so [Individual 4] would tell me
what coffee she wanted. This isn’t something where I’m forcing
coffee on someone.

And that sort of sparked a friendly relationship at the hospital
and that friendly relationship morphed into a romantic relationship
outside of the hospital.

And on one occasion she drove to my administrative office,
which is about a mile or so away from the hospital, after hours,
specifically to have an encounter with me. She drove her own car,
you know, I wasn’t there with her.

And, and that lasted a very short time, but the reason that it
ended was strictly on — I ended it. And the reason it ended was
because she made a demand for money to me and that, you know,
freaked me out. I was extremely concerned, obviously, because
there was no talk of that at all.

And obviously it is an implied threat to me, and so, and so
that’s how that ended.

The Respondent was then asked whether he knew who Individual 4 was at the first
interview. The Respondent testified:
A. No, not, no, I didn’t. It took me a while to sort of put two
and two together.
At the very end when we were talking about strawberry, it,

it hit like that, because I didn’t call her by her name.
Q. Oh, okay.

26
 

 

A. There are plenty of people in the, believe it or not, in the O.R.
I wouldn’t be able to tell you their whole name frequently.

Q. But you had a sexual relationship with her?

A. We had a romantic relationship, yes.

Q. Okay. And when you say romantic, was there sexual

intercourse?
A. Well, yes, there was.
Q. Okay.

A. The one time.

The Respondent further testified at the second interview that he communicated with
Individual 4 by text and telephone. He then explained that, at the first interview, “it’s not that I
didn’t remember, it’s that I couldn’t, I have to put some type of coherent thing together for you
guys.” The ALJ found that this “response did not reflect positively on his credibility.” The
Respondent also said at the second interview, “So, yeah, this isn’t like I had forgot this person.”
The Respondent also told the investigators that he possessed a topless selfie of Individual 4 which
he said he obtained by Individual 4 sending it to him.

The Respondent's change from denying knowing a person to testifying that: (1) he had a
sexual relationship with that person, (2) who subsequently “freaked [him] out” when that person
threatened him by demanding an unspecified amount of money, and (3) that he kept a topless selfie
of that person, demonstrates the Respondent’s lack of credibility. The Respondent’s statements
concerning Individual 4 in the two interviews severely damaged his credibility. The record does
not support the Respondent’s testimony that the Respondent had a sexual relationship with
Individual 4 or that Individual 4 demanded money from the Respondent or that Individual 4 sent
the topless selfie to the Respondent.!!

D. Conclusion — Panel’s Credibility Determination of Respondent

"! Based on the testimony of Individual 4 and the inconsistent testimony of the Respondent, the
Panel finds that Individual 4 sent the topless selfie to another physician at the Hospital with whom
she had a flirtatious relationship and that this physician provided the Respondent with the photo.

27
In sum, the Respondent’s testimony concerning: (1) the slapping of the anesthetized
patient’s buttocks, (2) his statement to Complainant 2 that he wanted to spank her, and (3) his
interactions with Individual 4 prove to Panel B that the Respondent was neither a credible nor a
reliable witness.

UI. PANEL B’S FINDINGS CONCERNING ALJ FINDINGS FOR WHICH THE
RESPONDENT DID NOT TAKE EXCEPTION

The Respondent took exception to several of the ALJ’s findings and conclusions
concerning incidents in which the ALJ found that the Respondent’s conduct was unprofessional
and/or immoral. The Respondent, however, did not take exception to all of the ALJ’s proposed
findings and conclusions. Here, Panel B addresses findings and conclusions that the ALJ made
against the Respondent for which the Respondent did not take exception.

A. Complaint No. 2 —- Respondent’s Slapping the Anesthetized Patient’s Buttocks

The Respondent did not take exception to the ALJ’s findings and conclusions regarding
Complaint No. 2, where the ALJ found that the Respondent slapped the buttocks of an anesthetized
patient in the OR and that it constituted immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine. The evidence supports the ALJ’s findings and conclusions. The Respondent forcefully
slapped the patient’s buttocks when the patient was anesthetized while he said “Baby’s Got Back”
and moved in a rhythmic manner. There was no medical purpose for slapping the patient, and, of
course, the patient did not consent to it. The Panel concludes that the Respondent’s slapping of
the anesthetized patient’s buttocks constitutes immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i); and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

B. Respondent’s Behavior that Complainant 2 was Subjected to

28
The Respondent took exception to the ALJ’s findings with respect to the Demand Letter,
arguing, inter alia, that the Demand Letter demonstrated a lack of credibility on the part of
Complainant 2. But, beyond this credibility argument, it does not seem that the Respondent took
exception to the ALJ’s findings that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional and/or immoral
conduct concerning his behavior that he subjected Complainant 2 to.

1. Complaint No. 3 —- Respondent’s Evaluation of Complainant 2’s Back

Concerning Complaint No. 3, the ALJ found that the Respondent engaged in
unprofessional and immoral conduct in the practice of medicine by commenting, while purportedly
conducting an examination concerning Complainant 2’s back pain, on how cute her underwear
was and how good she looked from his point of view. Panel B also concludes that the Respondent
engaged in unprofessional conduct and immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), by making these comments during the Respondent’s
purported examination of Complainant 2’s back. See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64,

2. Complaint No. 4— Other Improper Conduct by the Respondent that he
Subjected Complainant 2 to

The ALJ found that the Respondent subjected Complainant 2 to many improper acts and
comments. The Respondent subjected Complainant 2 to a steady and long-term course of sexual
harassment. See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64, 72, 76-77. The Panel finds that the Respondent’s
sexual harassment of Complainant 2, specifically his incessant and unwanted touching of
Complainant 2, his grabbing of Complainant 2’s hair bun and using it to jerk her head around,
telling Complainant 2 that he’d like to spank her, and his asking about Complainant 2’s sex life,
constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii).

C. Individual 4

29

 
 

|
/

The ALJ found that the Respondent’s unprofessional conduct included the Respondent
calling Individual 4, an OR secretary, on her phone while she was at her desk from 15 feet away
while they were at the Hospital and asking her to sit on his lap and, on another occasion, for telling
Individual 4 that she had a “nice butt.” The Respondent did not take exception to this. Panel B
finds that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), for telling Individual 4 at the Hospital that she. had a
“nice butt” and for calling Individual 4 at her desk in the Hospital from 15 feet away and asking
her to sit on his lap. See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64.

IV. SPECIFIC CONDUCT TO WHICH THE RESPONDENT TOOK EXCEPTION

A. Complaint No. 1 (Medtronic balls / hand on Complainant 1’s chest, etc.)

The Respondent challenged the ALJ’s findings concerning Complainant |. The ALJ found
that the Respondent acted unprofessionally by telling Complainant | in the OR that she should put
the Medtronic balls that fell on the floor in her mouth, that the Respondent placed his hand inside
her scrub shirt on her upper chest, that the Respondent commented on her underwear multiple
times, and that he lightly touched her back several times. Despite finding a few inconsistencies in
her testimony, the ALJ found Complainant 1 credible and accepted her testimony concerning these
incidents.

The ALJ also addressed the Respondent’s contention that Complainant 1 was not credible
because she was friends with Complainant 2 and that the two conspired against the Respondent.
The ALJ found that Complainant | filed her complaint years later after discussing with
Complainant 2 Complainant 2’s intentions for seeking redress against the Respondent. The ALJ
found that the coordination between the two explained the timing of Complainant 1’s complaint

to the Board but did not indicate that the complaint by Complainant 1 was fabricated.

30

 
including Complainant 1. When the Medtronic balls fell, some of the people in the OR commented
with innuendo about the Medtronic balls rolling on the floor.

7. Ina playful, silly manner, Complainant | picked up one ball from the floor and put
it in the Respondent’s shirt pocket, saying, “Here you go.” The Respondent was no longer gowned
at the time, so the pocket of his shirt was accessible.

8. The Respondent looked at Complainant 1 and said, “Why don’t you put them in
your mouth?” Complainant 1 responded, “Ooh that’s gross.”

9. Later the same day, while Complainant 1 was documenting the surgery on her
computer, the Respondent came around behind her and put his right hand approximately six inches
down Complainant 1’s V-neck scrub shirt onto her chest at the bottom of the V-neck and the top
of Complainant |’s cleavage area.

10. Onother occasions, the Respondent commented a few times about Complainant 1’s
underwear and bra. He touched her upper shoulder blade and back.

11. On one occasion, before the incident with the Medtronic balls, Complainant 1 had
an outburst with the Respondent when he chastised her for leaving the OR during a procedure and
she told him she had to change her tampon.

12. On August 30, 2020, Complainant | filed her Complaint (Complaint No. 1) with
the Board. The complaint was dated August 25, 2020. Complainant 1 alleged in the Complaint
that the Respondent asked her to put ball-shaped pieces of a surgical instrument in her mouth, after
which he touched her skin at the V-neck of her scrub shirt, and that he would touch her back and

shoulders and comment on the color of her undergarments.

 
The Respondent argues on exceptions that the ALJ erred, arguing that Complainant’! was
biased based upon her friendship with Complainant 2, that Complainants 1 and 2 conspired
together, and that Complainant 1 was not credible for changing the date on the occurrence of the
Medtronic/scrub shirt incidents from 2008 to 2013. The Respondent further contends that the ALJ
erroneously credited Complainant 1’s testimony “despite the legion of inconsistencies, untruths,
and admitted half-truths.”

There are a few parts of Complainant 1’s testimony that the Panel had to wrestle with. But
mostly, like the ALJ, the Panel credits Complainant 1’s testimony. The Panel is impressed that
Complainant 1 testified that she was at fault in an incident that occurred in the OR in which
Complainant 1 had an outburst and left the OR. The ALJ wrote, “[Complainant 1] admitted having
an unprofessional outburst in the OR, for which she apologized to the Respondent.” The
Respondent chastised Complainant 1 for leaving the OR. The details of the incident were highly
personal to Complainant 1, nonetheless, Complainant 1 forthrightly explained the incident at the
ALJ hearing, including that she apologized to the Respondent. The Panel finds that Complainant
1’s testimony on this incident buttressed her credibility. That being said, the reliability of her
testimony needed to be carefully evaluated, including when the Medtronic balls/scrub shirt
incidents occurred.

Complainant 1’s complaint to the Board is dated August 25, 2020, and was received by the
Board on August 30, 2020. Complainant 1 wrote in the complaint that the Medtronic balls/scrub
shirt incidents took place in 2008. The ALJ found, however, that the incidents took place in 2013.
Complainant 1 met with the director of perioperative services to discuss these incidents. The
director of perioperative services started working at the Hospital in 2012 and testified that

Complainant 1 met with her shortly after Complainant | said the incidents occurred, which was in

31
 

:

the beginning of January 2013 or late December 2012. The Respondent argues that the five-year
difference is significant because, according to Complainant 1, the incident affected their
interactions, and thus, according to the Respondent, a five-year discrepancy is difficult to
harmonize with such a significant effect.

The Panel agrees with the ALJ that the five-year discrepancy did not significantly impair
Complainant 1’s credibility, essentially because the evidence of the incident was sufficiently
established and did occur a long time ago (making it more difficult to pinpoint when it took place).
Complainant 1 met with the director of perioperative services close to the time that the incident
occurred to complain about the incidents.

In her complaint to the Board, Complainant 1 alleged that Respondent touched her skin at
the V-neck of her scrub shirt. Complainant | initially said when interviewed that when he put a
hand on her chest one of his fingers definitely touched one of her breasts. Later in the interview,
she said that his touch included the cleavage area but not on a breast. At the hearing, she said that
he may have touched one of her breasts. Additionally, the Respondent testified.that he did touch
her chest, although denying that he touched her breast. The Respondent testified that Complainant
1 asked him to massage her chest. The Respondent also testified that his touching of Complainant
1’s upper chest was discussed with the director of perioperative services at their meeting. Like the
ALJ, the Panel does not accept that Complainant 1 asked the Respondent to massage her chest.
The evidence indicates that Complainant 1 was not comfortable with the Respondent touching her,
not even for light touches on the back. The Panel does not find, though, that the Respondent
touched her breast.

Complainant | testified that the Respondent commented on her underwear “seven” times.

Complainant 1 said that the Respondent’s comments included that he liked the color of her

32
underwear. Complainant 1 acknowledged that she pulled the number of times (“seven”) out of the
air. In her complaint to the Board, Complainant 1 wrote that he “often” commented on the color
of her undergarments. The Respondent testified that he did not recall commenting on the color of
her underwear. The ALJ stated that Complainant 1’s choosing the specific number “seven” out of
the air “hardly enhanced her credibility,” but the ALJ found that her testimony on the number of
times it occurred did not negate her testimony indicating that he commented on her underwear
more than once. The Panel agrees with the ALJ’s analysis.

The Panel denies the Respondent’s exception. The Panel finds that the Respondent’s
demeaning conduct toward Complainant 1, specifically telling her to put the Medtronic balls in
her mouth, placing his hand on her chest partially inside her scrub shirt without her consent,
touching Complainant 1’s back without her consent, and commenting on the color of her
underwear constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health
Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64.

B. Individual 7

The Respondent takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that the Respondent engaged in
sexual misconduct for saying to Individual 7, after following her into the OR, that “[i]t’s a good
thing you have a cute little butt so you can squeeze through.” Individual 7 was an OR housekeeper
who sterilized the OR rooms. The Respondent testified before the ALJ, “I had no idea who
[Individual 7] was. I wouldn’t have been able to pick her out of a lineup. I have never spoken to
{Individual 7]. I didn’t know who she was until she showed up here.” The Respondent argues that
Individual 7’s testimony was influenced by statements made by others at the Hospital about the

Respondent.

33
 

The Panel does not have any doubt from Individual 7’s testimony that she worked at the
Hospital during a time that the Respondent worked there. And the Panel finds plausible that the
Respondent would not be able to pick Individual 7 out of a line-up, as Individual 7 made clear, she
tried to avoid interactions with him, and Individual 7’s employment position at the Hospital was
one in which she could mostly avoid interacting with the Respondent. But the Panel finds false
the Respondent’s testimony that he had “never spoken with [Individual 7].” Stating that he had
never spoken with Individual 7 means that the Respondent testified that he never even said
something as innocuous as “hi,” “hey,” “good morning,” or something along those lines to
Individual 7. Considering the many occasions throughout the evidentiary hearing that the
Respondent testified that he did not recall specific comments or incidents, it is unclear to the Panel
how the Respondent could be certain that he never spoken with Individual 7. The Respondent may
not recall making the statement at issue to Individual 7, but that is different from having “never
spoken to” her. The Panel gives minimal weight to his statement that he never spoke with
Individual 7. The Respondent’s exception is denied. The Panel finds Individual 7’s testimony
entirely plausible, reasonable, and credible and thus finds that the Respondent said to Individual 7
that it was a good thing she had a cute, little butt. This comment about Individual 7’s buttocks is
exceedingly inappropriate in a medical setting and thus the Respondent, for this comment in the
Hospital and constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health

Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

'2 Because the sexual misconduct regulations the ALJ cited were not in effect at the time that the
Respondent made this comment to Individual 7, the Panel does not address whether the sexual
misconduct regulations were violated. But the Panel does find that the Respondent’s statement to
Individual 7 at issue is unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article. See also Banks, 354 Md. at 62-63. The Respondent
also challenged that ALJ’s findings that the Respondent’s conduct violated the sexual misconduct
regulations for Individuals 6 and 11. Thus, the Panel likewise also does not address the sexual

34
C. Individual 10

The ALJ found that when Individual 10 was a patient of the Respondent, the Respondent
grabbed her breasts at his private practice office and touched her vagina during pre-op ‘at the
Hospital. The Respondent mentions the informed consent procedures and administrative duties
at the Respondent’s office in what appears to be an attempt to show that Individual 10 was not left
alone with the Respondent. The Respondent states, “[Individual 10]’s account had Respondent
involved in these activities which conflicted with the medical records and Respondent's role in
patient encounters.” The Respondent does not identify the “medical records” he mentions, nor
does the Respondent identify what account by Individual 10 relates to this issue. The ALJ decision
discussed the medical records in extensive detail, but the Respondent does not address the specific
records the ALJ analyzed nor the ALJ’s discussion of those records.

In any case, the office visit medical record for Individual 10’s March 16, 2017, visit was
generated by the Respondent and identifies the Respondent as the provider. This document
describes the assessment/plan, stating that the Respondent recommends a “synovial cyst resection
and hemilaminectoiny,” and it also mentions the Respondent’s discussion of pars fractures that
could some day require “fusion.” This medical record, which was generated by the Respondent,
then states, “J discussed the risks benefits and alternatives with the patient including lumbar fusion
however despite the risks, the patient would like to proceed.” (Italics added.) The Respondent
makes a further claim concerning “[Individual 10]’s report” and “informed consent and pre-

operative interviews.” This claim also does not cite to the evidentiary record.

misconduct regulations with respect to the Respondent’s behavior at issue involving Individuals 6
and 11.

35
 

Moreover, the Respondent’s physician assistant, Individual 9 testified that it was not a
rarity for the Respondent to be involved with consents:

Q. .... And typically that work in preparing the patients would
have been strictly your province during the time that you were
working there. Is that right?

A {Individual 9]. Not necessarily, no. Dr. Benalcazar consented
some patients.

Q. Some patients?

A. — Yeah, he did.

Q. That was a rarity?

A. No, not a rarity I would say.

In any case, the medical records and testimony concerning “informed consent and pre-operative
interviews” are consistent with the ALJ’s findings.

The Respondent also argues that “[pjrior to [Individual 10]’s second surgery” a nurse
interviewed Individual 10 to assess Individual 10’s mental status. The Respondent asserts that
during this interview “[Individual 10] did not disclose any distress or other psychological injury
suffered at the hands of Respondent or any other person. The contemporaneous report belies the
later report of alleged misconduct.” Bout, the ALJ wrote:

The Respondent argued that [Individual 10] should not be

believed because when she went to the hospital’s emergency room

on March 30, 2017, the day before her second surgery, staff asked

her psychological questions, and she did not disclose any

psychological distress. Nevertheless, her priority was to get

treatment to resolve her inability to stand, which the Respondent

was able to do the next day in her second operation.
The Panel adopts the ALJ’s finding that Individual 10 prioritized her medical treatment at that
time.

The Respondent also relies upon Individual 10 reporting after the first surgery that her

patient experience was “excellent.” The ALJ found, “[i]n a post operative follow-up telephone

call from a person at [the Hospital] on March 30, 2017, [Individual 10] rated her ‘overall

36
 

experience’ at the hospital as ‘Excellent.’” The Panel does not give any significant weight to the
“Excellent” rating. There is no indication from this standard follow-up telephone call that the
caller from the Hospital would appear to Individual 10 to be an optimal candidate for addressing
the Respondent touching her vagina, if she were to disclose his behavior to the Hospital, which
she did not. In any case, the Hospital caller was focused on the customary potential surgical
complications that could be evident the day after an operation, as opposed to focusing on sexual
assault by a surgeon. The caller specifically asked about nausea, a sore throat, hoarseness, pain,
bleeding, drainage, the IV site, medication effectiveness, surgery preparation, and post-op
instructions. It is likely that, while Individual 10 was in the middle of her spinal surgeries, she
wanted the medical providers focused strictly on the medical issues, and not distracted by serious
and sensitive allegations against one of their colleagues. The “Excellent” rating adds insignificant
value with respect to weighing Individual 10’s allegations and testimony.

The ALJ found Individual 10 credible, stating, “I found [Individual 10]’s testimonial
demeanor very credible. Her answers were clear and forthright. She did not exaggerate or
embellish. She showed what I perceived as genuine emotion as she described a painful memory.”
The Panel accepts the ALJ’s credibility determination on Individual 10.

The ALJ found that the Respondent’s misconduct concerning Individual 10 constitutes
immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Panel agrees with these
conclusions. The Respondent’s exceptions with respect to Individual 10 are denied. The
Respondent is guilty of immoral conduct in the practice of medicine and unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), for saying to

Individual 10 how “nice” her “ass” was and for grabbing Individual 10’s breasts and touching her

37
vagina, which were without medical purpose and without consent. See also Shirazi, 199 Md, App.
at 472-76.

D. Individual 6

The ALJ found that, on three occasions and without Individual 6’s consent, the Respondent
touched Individual 6’s shoulders as if to give her a massage while Individual 6 was sitting at her
desk. On exceptions, the Respondent argues that the evidence does not support the ALJ’s
conclusion that this constitutes sexual misconduct. According to the Respondent, the “testimony
from others was that Respondent was an equal opportunity ‘hugger’ and exhibited collegial forms
of interpersonal touching with both men and women. The type of interaction was described by
[Individual 8] and others.” The Respondent then questions how conduct in one instance is
“unquestionably benign” and in another instance “deemed sexually charged” when there is no
“appreciable difference.”

The Respondent's conduct that Individual 8 testified to was clearly not-always “collegial”
or “benign.” For instance, Individual 8 testified that Complainant 2 was uncomfortable with the
Respondent touching her. Despite clear indications that certain touching was unwanted and not
consented to, the Respondent continued to touch Individual 6. Moreover, the Panel is not
convinced that the Respondent was an “equal opportunity” hugger and toucher of both men and

women, Individual 9, a male physician assistant, testified:

And who would he hug that you saw?
The -- the nurse, the tech, I mean —
Did he ever hug you, [Individual 9]?
No, I don’t think so.
Did you observe him hug other men?
No.
. Did you ever observe the respondent touch other men’s
necks or shoulders?
A. No.

QOPOPOPL

38

 

i
i
I
A male Medtronic sales representative testified that he hugged the Respondent, but he explained
that he, not the Respondent, initiated their hugs.

The Respondent also argues that “nothing in the ALJ’s opinion addressed the obvious bias
of the witness toward the Respondent.” However, the ALJ found, “[Individual 6]’s testimony and
demeanor revealed she feels a rather strong antipathy toward the Respondent.” The ALJ,
nonetheless, found her testimony credible. The Panel, also, finds her testimony credible. The
Respondent’s touching of Individual 6 is consistent with the Respondent’s behavior at the
Hospital. Individual 9 was asked to describe what some of the Respondent’s touching might look
like and testified, “Just like massage type thing on the shoulders.”

Tt does appear that Individual 6 does harbor antipathy toward the Respondent, but that by
itself does not significantly impair her credibility. It should come as‘no surprise that victims might
harbor negative feeling toward those who mistreated them. Nor does her antipathy suggest that
the Respondent's touching was benign. The exception is denied. The Respondents touching of
Individual 6’s shoulders as if to give her a massage on three occasions, with no consent and with
clear indications that it was unwanted, constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). See also Banks, 354 Mad. at 62.

E. Individual 1

Individual 11 worked for 10 months at the Hospital, from November 2017 through August
2018, where she worked as a circulating nurse in the OR. One day, while in the OR at the Hospital,
toward the end of the case, while the patient was still also in the OR, Individual 11 was filling out
paperwork concerning a neck/spine operation. Individual 11 testified that she was at a counter in
the OR completing paperwork and the Respondent approached her from. behind and “tickled” her

sides, which scared her. The Respondent said, “I guess you didn’t like that?” Individual 11 made

39

/

 
 

it clear to the Respondent that she did not want him to touch her. Individual 11 said that when the
Respondent tickled her, she “stopped filling out my paperwork to confront Dr. Benalcazar.”
Individual 11 testified that, at the time she was tickled, she was filling out a form concerning
biological agents used for surgery. Individual 11 also said that the Respondent tickling her made
her. “uncomfortable” and “upset and a little angry.” When asked whether the tickling was
distracting, Individual 11 answered, “Yes.”

The Respondent took exception to the ALJ’s finding that he tickled Individual 11. The
Respondent testified that he grabbed Individual 11’s shoulders to get her attention to tell her
something that she needed to do. He did not acknowledge tickling Individual 11. In any case, the
Panel does not find the Respondent credible, while Individual 11’s testimony was straightforward,
detailed, and reasonable. The Panel finds Individual 11 credible and accepts her testimony. The
Respondent’s exception is denied.

The Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in vidlation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), for tickling Individual 11.

Vv. EXCEPTIONS - DUE PROCESS

A. Demand Letter

Before the ALJ, the Respondent argued that his due process rights had been violated,
because the Board investigator omitted the Demand Letter from the index of documents provided
to the panel that voted for the charges. The ALJ did not find a due process violation. The ALJ
found that Panel A, the Board disciplinary panel that voted for the charges, had actual knowledge
of the Demand Letter when it voted to issue charges. The Respondent discussed the Demand
Letter in his interviews with the Board investigators, which were recorded in transcripts. Second,

the ALJ relied on the fact that the Demand Letter was admitted into evidence at the hearing before

40

'
:
;
:
:
;
:

 
Complaint No. 2, filed by Complainant 2 (Respondent’s Slapping
an Anesthetized Patient’s Buttocks before Surgery in the OR)

13. Complainant 2, a female surgical technologist, began working at the Hospital in
2015, She was responsible for assuring that instruments and equipment were. at hand in the OR
for the surgeon and that the OR was sterile for the safety of the patient and the surgical team.

14. In or about April 2017, a female patient was brought into the Respondent’s OR for
a lumbar fusion. The patient was moved onto a Jackson table, a specialized table used for prone
surgical procedures. The patient’s buttocks were up in the air and her back was exposed.
Individual 9, the Respondent’s physician assistant at the time, taped down the patient’s buttocks
to expose the surgery area. The patient was already prepped for surgery and was totally
unconscious from anesthesia.

15. Individual 9 was scrubbed and gowned, ready to drape the patient, when the
Respondent entered the OR. The Respondent saw that the patient was taped down but indicated
he did not like the way the patient was taped.

16. The Respondent went over and pulled tape off the patient. The Respondent looked
at the patient, whose buttocks had folded back over onto the lumbar area. The Respondent slapped*
the patient’s buttocks with a horizontal wrist movement of one hand, causing the patient’s buttocks

to jiggle. The Respondent’s hand was in a vertical position with the fingers extended but not

 

spread apart. His hand moved horizontally from his wrist. He slapped only one cheek of the

patient’s buttocks. As the Respondent slapped the patient’s buttocks, the Respondent said, “Baby’s

5 The witnesses (Complainant 2, Individual 5, and Individual 9) referred to the Respondent’s action
as both a slap and a smack, and slap and smack were used interchangeably. The Panel does not
find any inconsistency. The Panel finds that both “slap” and “smack” accurately describe the
Respondent’s action. However, unless smack is used in a quotation, this decision refers to the slap
or smack as a “slap.”
 

the ALJ. The ALJ noted that the Respondent used the Demand Letter to “strongly” cross-examine
Complainant 2. The ALJ concluded, “[wJhile not endorsing the letter’s omission from the
investigator’s index, I conclude that the Board’s handling of the letter (of which the Board had
actual knowledge) in its investigative phase did not violate the Respondent’s right to due process
or otherwise taint the proceeding.”

On exceptions, the Respondent argues that the ALJ erred in finding no due process
violation. According to the Respondent, the Demand Letter was essential to judge Complainant
2’s credibility and thus essential to judging her allegations against the Respondent. Even more,
the Respondent argues that Complainant 2 “solicited and marshalled a legion of her friends and
associates to come forward in an effort to further malign the Respondent.” Taking all this together,
the Respondent argues that the entire process was affected to such an extent that the Respondent
was denied a “fair and just hearing.”

Panel B, however, is not persuaded that any deficiency in the charging process with respect
to the Demand Letter caused a defect in the evidentiary hearing, and the Panel certainly does not
find that any deficiency in the charging process with respect to the Demand Letter affected the
evidentiary hearing to such an extent that the Respondent was denied a “fair and just” evidentiary
hearing. The Respondent offered the Demand Letter into evidence at the hearing before the ALJ,
and it was admitted into evidence. And, as the ALJ noted, the Demand Letter was “strongly” used
to cross-examine Complainant 2. .

The Respondent also asserts in his exceptions that

[i]fa prosecutor denied a defendant evidence of an extortion demand
made by a witness, let alone a complainant, it is clear that a court of
competent jurisdiction would not summarily dismiss claims about

due process violation, as the ALJ in the instant case has done. To
the contrary, the court would almost certainly agree with the

41

 
Respondent that the actions ran afoul of the due process protections
afforded him under the Constitution.

There is, however, no allegation that Board staff failed to disclose the Demand Letter to the
Respondent, as the Respondent was in possession of the Demand Letter before the Board staff had
it.

In response to the Respondent’s argument that the Board staff purposefully withheld the
Demand Letter from the disciplinary panel that voted for charges, the ALI relied, by analogy, upon
United States v. Williams, 504 U.S. 36 (1992), and summarized the ruling, stating that a “federal
court may not dismiss an otherwise valid indictment because the Government failed to disclose to
the grand jury substantial exculpatory evidence in its possession; the exculpatory evidence can be
presented at trial.” The Supreme Court ruled that the grand jury had no obligation to consider all
“substantial exculpatory” evidence and that the prosecutor had no obligation to present it.
Williams, 504 U.S. at 53. Likewise, in Clark v. State, 140 Md. App. 540 (2001), the prosecutor
allowed an expert witness to testify to the grand jury that blood recovered in the victim’s bedroom
could have come from the defendant, when the prosecutor knew of another DNA test that excluded
the defendant. The prosecutor did not present the negative test result to the grand jury. Relying
upon Williams, the Court of Special Appeals did not dismiss the indictment. Clark, 140 Md. App.
at.557-63. With all that said, it is not apparent that a court would find a due process violation if
the circumstances alleged by the Respondent here occurred in a criminal proceeding. The
Respondent was interviewed twice by Board investigators, and, each time, the Respondent
discussed the Demand Letter. A Board investigator testified that she inadvertently omitted the
Demand Letter from the investigative index and thus it was not produced for the panel when voting

for charges. The Panel accepts that the omission was inadvertent.

42
In support of his argument that the Demand Letter demonstrates Complainant 2’s lack of
credibility, the Respondent offers Maryland Rule 5-608(b), which allows for “any witness to be
examined regarding the witness’s own prior conduct that did not result in a conviction but that the
court finds probative ofa character trait of untruthfulness.”'? The Panel does not find this argument
compelling. Rule 5-608(b) relates to the scope of an examination of a witness, finding certain acts
sufficiently probative of credibility to allow a witness to be questioned about those acts.'4 The
Respondent does not allege that the ALJ prevented or curtailed his cross examination of
Complainant 2 with respect to the Demand Letter. The Panel agrees that the Demand Letter is
relevant to the questioning of Complainant 2 with respect to her credibility, because the Demand
Letter certainly could reflect on Complainant 2’s credibility. But Rule 5-608(b) does not provide
for the weight that should be given to the witness’s testimony after the witness has been examined.

The ALJ did not find that the Demand Letter undermined Complainant 2’s testimony to
any significant degree. The ALJ thoroughly considered the Demand Letter with respect to
Complainant 2’s credibility, but the ALJ mostly credited, accepted, and relied upon Complainant
2’s testimony concerning the slapping of the patient’s buttocks, the inappropriate behavior of the
Respondent when he examined her back, and the Respondent’s incessant sexual harassment of
Complainant 2. For instance, the ALJ wrote, “[h]aving weighed all the evidence, I credit

Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent regularly sexually harassed her.” The ALJ’s

'3 To be clear, Rule 5-608 is a rule of evidence for courts, while in administrative hearings the
admission of evidence is governed by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-213.

' The Respondent also asserts that Complainant 2 “essentially admitted each and every of the
elements constituting the felonious offense of Extortion under the Criminal Law Article of the
Annotated Code of Maryland, § 3-701(b)(2).” The Respondent does not mention the elements or
facts that meet those elements. The Panel does not make a finding on whether Complainant 2
committed the criminal offense of extortion. The Demand Letter was admitted into evidence, and
the Respondent cross examined Complainant 2 about the Demand Letter.

43

 

|
|
|

 
 

reasoning for mostly accepting and crediting Complainant 2’s testimony included the testimony of
other witnesses who corroborated her testimony.

Certain details of Complainant 2’s testimony were not accepted by the ALJ, but overall
Complainant 2’s testimony was largely accepted. In terms of the details that the ALJ found
implausible, Complainant 2, according to the ALJ, testified that she did not understand that the
Demand Letter was for the purpose of extracting money from the Respondent. The ALI explained,
after finding this implausible, that he was not applying the maxim “Falsus in uno, falsus in
omnibus” (“False in one thing, false in everything”). The Panel assumes the ALJ was referring to
Complainant 2’s testimony in which she stated, “I did not realize that the letter was implying that
I was trying to get money from Dr. Benalcazar in any way.” At first glance, without context, this
statement by Complainant 2 certainly does seem to indicate that she did not know that, through
the Demand Letter, she was asking for money in exchange for not reporting him to various
authorities. But, when asked to confirm that she did not realize that the Demand Letter was seeking
five million dollars from the Respondent, Complainant 2 responded, “I did not expect that.” In
context, Complainant 2’s testimony on this issue appears to the Panel to mean that Complainant 2
did not expect that her obtaining legal representation would result in her asking for money.
Complainant 2 explained that she wanted to report the Respondent’s conduct to the Board but “I
had a problem because I did not want to lose my job.” Thus, before reporting to the Board, she
hired an attorney. Complainant 2 further explained that the strategy for dealing with the
Respondent was developed by her attorney. It also appears to the Panel that, at this stage in her
testimony, Complainant 2 was being a bit evasive in her responses. In any case, it is obvious that
Complainant 2 did know, from at least having read the Demand Letter prior to it being sent to the

Respondent, that she was asking for money. Complainant 2 could have been more responsive, or

44
at least more clear, in her answers concerning the Demand Letter, but Panel B finds Complainant
2 credible and finds that the Demand Letter and testimony with respect to the Demand Letter does
not diminish her credibility to any significant degree.

The Demand Letter does not reflect positively on Complainant 2 in that it indicates her
willingness to place her own financial interest before protecting the patients and employees of the
Hospital from the Respondent’s misconduct. The Demand Letter could also indicate a bias on
Complainant 2's part based upon the financial interest she has in her lawsuit against the
Respondent. But, after considering these factors, in general, the Panel finds her testimony credible
and reliable. The Demand Letter is based upon her allegations that she suffered from the
Respondent’s sexual harassment toward her. The Demand Letter appears consistent with her
testimony concerning the substance of the Respondent’s unprofessional behavior.

In any event, in terms of her truthfulness, the Panel finds that the corroboration of
Complainant 2’s testimony by other witnesses far outweighs any character flaws and bias of
Complainant 2 that the Panel infers from the Demand Letter, For instance, Complainant 2’s
testimony concerning the Respondent’s statement to her that he wanted to spank her was
corroborated by Individual 3. Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent grabbed her hair
bun and used it to jerk her head around was corroborated by Individual 8. Complainant 2’s
testimony concerning the Respondent’s routine, unwanted touching of her was corroborated by
Individual 9. And Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent slapped the buttocks of the
anesthetized patient was corroborated by Individuals 5 and 9.

The Panel finds that the ALJ correctly found no due process violation concerning the
Demand Letter, and there is no conduct of the Board staff related to the Demand Letter that entitles

the Respondent to any relief. The exception is denied.

45

:

|
'

 
 

 

 

B. Investigation — Witness Statements

The Respondent argues that “the investigative process was further irreparably corrupted in
the manner through which the Board obtained witness statements.” The basis for the Respondent’s
exception is his allegation that the interviews conducted by the Board’s investigators were “rife
with leading and suggestive questions.” The Respondent does not provide any legal authority to
support this exception. The Panel does not find that leading and suggestive questions by the Board
investigators is a due process violation. The exception is denied. —

The Respondent further asserts in his exceptions that the ALJ erred by not finding a due
process violation for the Board staff declining “Respondent’s request that it interview [the
Hospital’s charge nurse] . . . and that repeated attempts to request a full investigation, only after
charges were filed did the Board seek to interview [the Hospital’s director of perioperative
services], another critical witness.” The Respondent does not provide any relevant legal authority
indicating that the Board staff’s actions constitute a due process violation, nor does the Respondent
explain how these investigative decisions amount to a due process violation. It should also be
noted that both [the charge nurse and perioperative director] were called as witnesses by the
Respondent and testified before the ALJ. The ALJ found “[t]here was nothing so substantially
exculpatory about the testimony of either [the charge nurse or the perioperative director] that would
have made it fundamentally unfair, rising to the level of a due process violation, for the Board not
to have interviewed them before it approved the charges.” The ALJ relied upon language in Rosov
v. Maryland Board of Dental Examiners, 163 Md. App. 98, 115 (2005), stating that the court knows
of “no requirement, either in law or investigative technique, that compels an investigative agency,
prior to charging, to include the investigation target or counsel in the interview process.” The ALJ

then explained, “[i]t follows that the Board was not required to interview each person suggested

46
by the Respondent, particularly where the two witnesses in question were available and testified
for the Respondent at the adjudicatory hearing.” The ALJ ruled there was no due process violation.
The ALJ did not err. The exception is denied.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The Respondent’s actions and comments, which resulted in Panel B’s findings and

conclusions, set forth above, that he is guilty of unprofessional and/or immoral conduct in the
practice of medicine, were unbecoming of a physician in good standing in the profession, see
Finucan, 380 Md. at 593, and breached the ethical code of his profession. See id His
unprofessional conduct was disruptive in the Hospital and potentially negatively affected patient
care, in violation of AMA Opinions 9.4.4 and 9.045. The ALJ found that the Respondent’s
unprofessional conduct was a distraction in the OR. The Panel accepts this ALJ finding. Individual
5, an OR nurse, when she was interviewed, testified about how the Respondent’s behavior affected
work:

.... E don’t want to say it impairs you 100 percent, but you definitely

are — are impaired, because you’re also worried about how you have

to avoid either conversation with a surgeon -- which is impossible

to avoid when you’re working in a surgical area like that, because

you need to talk to him, you need to have open communication, and

you kind of have to forget those things that happened, and treat every

day like a new day, and that’s really difficult when you do

experience things and know things that have happened.

When Individual 11 asked whether the Respondent tickling her in the OR was distracting,

Individual 11 answered, “Yes.” When Individual 9 was asked whether the Respondent’s touching
of female staff interfered with work in the OR, Individual 9 answered, “Yes.” Individual 9

explained, “The nurse and the tech were pre-occupied and they would always be thinking about

what was going to happen.” The Respondent’s behavior distracted the Hospital’s medical staff

47
and degraded the teamwork approach that is necessary for proper medical care. Complainant 2
testified about her concerns after witnessing the Respondent slapping the Patient’s buttocks:

And when he did these things towards one of his patients | felt there

was no line that he would not cross. That I had to somehow remove

myself from his OR and change my schedule to do something about

this.

The Respondent’s sexual harassment of Complainant 2, by itself, was more threatening to
patient safety than the conduct of Dr. Banks for which Dr. Banks was sanctioned under § 14-
404(a)(3). Dr. Banks’ victims were hospital staff, such as unit secretaries, who did not directly
provide care, while Complainant 2 worked in the OR as a surgical technologist. See Banks, 354
Md. at 62-63.

The Panel also finds the Respondent’s slapping of the anesthetized patient’s buttocks and
his unwanted and unauthorized grabbing of Individual 10’s breasts and touching of Individual 10’s
vagina shows that the Respondent was clearly not dedicated to preserving those patients’ human
dignity, in violation of Principle I of the AMA’s Principles. Further, as in Shirazi, the Respondent
“used his position as a physician to take advantage of... women who relied on him for their
medical treatment.” Shirazi, 199 Md. App. at 478.

Based upon the findings of fact, discussion, and reasons set forth in this decision, Panel B
concludes that the Respondent is guilty of: immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i); and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

THE SANCTION

The ALJ recommended the revocation of the Respondent’s license and that the Respondent

could apply for reinstatement after one year. The Respondent took exception. The Respondent

argues for an 18-month suspension that would begin retroactively from the date his license was

48
 

 

summarily suspended. The Respondent asserts that his conduct did not have “the potential to or
actually cause harm to any patient.” The record does not support the Respondent’s assertion.
There were two patients who suffered actual harm by having sexualized body parts intentionally
touched by the Respondent without their consent. These patients were highly vulnerable. In fact,
one of the patients was anesthetized at the time. The other patient testified that she did not address
the Respondent’s conduct with him because:
I didn’t want to have to talk to him. My pain went away. He

fixed my back but personally I did not want to have any contact with

him or talk to him after that and I didn’t want anyone to know what

happened because I felt ashamed that it happened.
Moreover, the Respondent’s disruptive conduct distracted staff from focusing on patient care and
degraded the teamwork approach that is necessary for the effective delivery of health care as he
antagonized, demeaned, shocked, and frightened employees of the Hospital.

The Respondent’s exceptions also argue that the “testimony made clear that after
Respondent was admonished in the [Hospital’s] Medical Staff process, no further incidents of any
kind were reported.”'> Considering the context, the Panel is not convinced that this shows that the
Respondent is not a real threat to patients and to patient care. The evidence indicates that Hospital
employees were fearful of making reports against the Respondent and that they had little faith that

any report by them would result in the Respondent being held accountable. Complainant 2 was

reluctant to make a report because she did not feel she had the support of her supervisors. In fact,

'S The Panel believes that the Respondent’s argument was intended to mean that there were no
reports or complaints after the Hospital reprimanded the Respondent for misconduct occurring
after the reprimand. The record shows reports or complaints of the Respondent’s misconduct
submitted after the Hospital’s reprimand for misconduct which occurred before the Hospital
reprimanded the Respondent.

49

 
 

she was fearful of losing her job if she made a report against the Respondent. Complainant 2
testified,

On multiple occasions Dr. Hugo Benalcazar would make comments

to me in regards to other staff members. Specifically [Individual 5]

coming in to the room to give [Individual 8] a lunch break. He

would make comments that he could get her fired. That he knew

management very well. That he knew my supervisors very well. He

would say these things to me at the surgical field and make threats

that she wouldn’t be there the next day. That he had that power to

do so. So, when all of this was occurring ] was fearful and scared

to lose my job. That’s why I didn’t report it at the time.
When Complainant 1 complained to the Hospital’s director of perioperative services, Complainant
1 did not feel “she took it very seriously.” When the Respondent was admonished by the Hospital,
Complainant 1, who was still working at the Hospital, did not know anything about it. After the
Respondent slapped the buttocks of the patient in the OR, Individual 5 told the charge nurse, then
heard nothing further about the matter. Individual 5 testified that the charge nurse told Individual
5 that there would probably be nothing done about it. Individual 9 testified that he did not report
the Respondent’s slapping of the anesthetized patient, because “I don’t know how that would have
affected my job.”

Despite complaints, the Respondent’s misconduct persisted for years, and Hospital
employees were not able to discern any consequences for the Respondent. Under these conditions,
the Panel is not persuaded by the lack of reports for misconduct occurring after the Respondent
was reprimanded by the Hospital that the Respondent poses no real threat.

The Respondent engaged in egregious conduct over the course of years and had numerous
victims. The victims were both medical professionals and patients, and the patients were especially

vulnerable. The Panel has also considered that the Respondent does not have a prior disciplinary

record and that Respondent’s license has been summarily suspended since July 2, 2021. The Panel

50

 
 

got back,” a reference to a popular song whose lyrics refer to a woman’s buttocks, and he briefly
moved back and forth in a rhythmic manner. There was no medical reason for slapping the
patient’s buttocks.®

17. The Respondent told Individual 9 to re-tape the patient and left the OR. Individual
9 re-taped the patient the same way he first taped the patient.

18. The Respondent performed the operation successfully. The patient was not bruised
or injured as a result of the Respondent slapping her buttocks. .

19. Complainant 2, Individual 5 (a registered nurse), Individual 9 (a physician
assistant), and an anesthesiologist? were present with the Respondent in the OR when the
Respondent slapped the patient’s buttocks.

20. Individual 9 did not report the incident.

21, Complainant 2 told Individual 9 that she would report the buttocks-slapping:

22. On November 30, 2020, Complainant 2 filed with the Board Complaint 2, the first
of Complainant 2’s three successive Complaints against the Respondent, in which she alleged, in
part, that the Respondent made inappropriate and unprofessional remarks about a patient’s body
and slapped the patient’s buttocks.

Complaint No. 3, filed by Complainant 2 (Respondent’s Examination of
Complainant 2’s Lower Back)

23. In or about April 2015, Complainant 2 was having lower back pain. She was

shifting her body back and forth in the OR while working. The Respondent’s physician assistant

© In this decision, where Panel B states that there was no medical reason for a particular act of the
Respondent, Panel B used its “experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge in
the evaluation of evidence.” Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-213(i).

7 The anesthesiologist did not testify at the ALJ hearing.

6
 

has decided that the appropriate sanction in this matter is a one-year suspension under § 14-404,
which shall begin when the summary suspension pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) is
terminated. The summary suspension under § 10-226(c)(2) will be terminated when the
Respondent’s expired license is administratively reinstated. See Health Occ. § 14-317; COMAR
10.32.01.11. Once the license is administratively reinstated, the summary suspension is
terminated, and the suspension under § 14-404 goes into effect, the Respondent will be required
to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and successfully
complete courses in boundaries and professionalism. See § 14-404(e) After one year from when
the § 14-404 suspension goes into effect, if the Respondent has complied with the terms and
conditions of the suspension and the Panel determines, after reviewing MPRP’s recommendation,
that the Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine, then the Respondent will be placed
on probation for a minimum period of two years under terms and conditions that the Panel finds
appropriate. .
ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the order for summary suspension on Dr. Benalcazar’s license, issued on
July 2, 2021, and affirmed in a final decision and order on August 1, 2022, will be terminated as
moot upon the reinstatement of the Respondent’s expired license under Health Occ. § 14-317!%

and it is further

'6 The Respondent’s license expired on September 30, 2022. In order for the summary suspension
to be terminated, the Respondent must apply for the reinstatement of his lapsed license and the
license must be administratively reinstated. See Health Occ. § 14-317; COMAR 10.32.01.11.
Also, for sanctioning purposes, the expiration of the Respondent’s license does not prevent the
Panel from sanctioning him — a license does not lapse by operation of law while the individual is
under investigation or while charges are pending. Health Occ. § 14-403(a).

51

 
 

ORDERED that Dr. Benalcazar is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Benalcazar’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), for a minimum period of ONE
YEAR," commencing when the Respondent’s Maryland medical license is reinstated under
Health Occ. § 14-317. During the suspension, Dr. Benalcazar shall comply with the following
conditions of suspension:

1. During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of medical
services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider number
by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care
facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

2. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days from the commencement of the minimum one-year suspension,
the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days from the commencement of the minimum one-year
suspension, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals,
rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP; .

'7 If the Respondent’s license expires while he is under suspension under this Final Decision and

Order on Amended Charges, the suspension and suspension terms and conditions will be tolled.
COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).

$2

 
(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by
the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information to MPRP. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities verbal and written
information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive
the health care records of the Respondent. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

!
:

 

(f) if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation program
in another state, the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or condition of that
state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this Final Decision and Order on
| Amended Charges (“Final Decision and Order’). The Respondent shall also sign any out-

of-state written release/consent forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (ie.,
| disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state program verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
and alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw the
release/consent; and

 

(g) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions including
terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Final Decision and Order; and

3. Within six months, the Respondent is required to take and successfully complete
courses in (1) boundaries, and (2) professionalism. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
Panel’s approval of the courses before the courses begin;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the Panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the courses;

(c) the courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal; and

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the courses; and it is further
ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Final Decision and

Order; and it is further

53
 

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of the
suspension and the minimum period of suspension imposed by this Final Decision and Order has
passed, the Respondent may petition the Board for the termination of the suspension. A Board
disciplinary panel will consider a recommendation from MPRP on whether it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine. A disciplinary panel will then determine whether
the suspension is terminated. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary
panel to discuss his petition. Ifa disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent
to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension imposed under this Final Decision and Order
will be terminated and the Respondent will be placed on probation for a minimum of TWO
YEARS under terms and conditions the disciplinary panel determines are appropriate. The
probation will also be under the customary terms and conditions applied to probation. If, after
considering MPRP’s recommendation, the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall remain in effect under the
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel finds reasonable and appropriate under the
circumstances; and it is further

ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order goes into effect when it is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board, but the minimum one-year suspension commences and the
summary suspension is terminated when the Respondent’s license is reinstated through the
administrative reinstatement application process. The Executive Director signs this Final Decision
and Order on behalf of Pane! B; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms

and conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further

54
ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Final Decision and Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If a disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if a disciplinary panel
determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the
Respondent has. failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Final Decision and
Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation
with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke
the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition
to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent;
and it is further

ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§

1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

° °
Signature On File
O5 118 /2023 a
Date Christine A. Fane eu Director j
Maryland State Board of\Physicians

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO APPEAL
Pursuant to § 14-408(a) of the Health Occupations Article, the Respondent has the right to

seek judicial review of this final decision and order. Any petition for judicial review must be filed

55
 

in court within 30 days from the date this final decision and order was sent to the Respondent. The
final decision and order was sent on the date that it was issued. The petition for judicial review
must be made as directed in the Maryland Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-222, and Maryland Rules 7-201 ef seq.

If the Respondent petitions for judicial review of this final decision and order, the Board is
a party and should be served with the court’s process. Also, a copy of the petition for judicial
review should be sent to the Maryland Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215. In addition, the Respondent should send a copy of the petition for judicial review
to the Board’s counsel, David Wagner, Assistant Attorney General, Office of the Attorney General,
300 W. Preston Street, Suite 302, Baltimore, Maryland 21201 and by email at
david.wagner@maryland.gov The administrative prosecutors are not involved in the circuit court

process and does not need to be served or copied on pleadings filed in circuit court.

56

sens ORNs mca en: cpeamtEce se
 

 

at the time, Individual 12, noticed and asked Complainant 2 if everything was okay. Individual 12
suggested some light exercises for Complainant 2 to perform.

24. The Respondent asked what Complainant 2 and Individual 12 were discussing,
When Complainant 2 said she had back pain, the Respondent offered to check her out between
surgical cases. Later, he escorted Complainant 2 into an empty office between the OR and the
post-anesthesia care unit and offered his help.

25. Complainant 2 went willingly into the empty office. Thé Respondent closed the
door. There was no one else in the room other than the Respondent and Complainant 2.

26. | The Respondent asked Complainant 2 to point out the location of the pain. She
turned around and pointed to her lower back area, above the buttocks and below the spine. She
was wearing scrubs. The Respondent asked her to lift up her scrub shirt so he could get a better
visual and put his hands around her waist and felt her back with his thumbs to ascertain the location
of her pain.

27. The Respondent asked Complainant 2 to lower her pants so he could get a better
visual. She did so willingly, untying and holding the draw strings to her pants so they would not
fall to the floor. The Respondent felt her back and commented on her underwear, that they were
cute, and on how good she looked from his point of view. Complainant 2’s mid-buttocks and skin
were exposed. He pushed on her lower back and below her underwear line. He made a sound,
“like a groan. In a sense, like, mm-hh.”

28. Complainant 2 felt extremely uncomfortable and quickly pulled up her pants and
left the room. She went to the OR front desk and told the charge nurse that she was uncomfortable
and did not want to return to the Respondent’s OR that day. The charge nurse assigned

Complainant 2 to a different room for that day.
29. On November 30, 2020, the Board received Complainant 2’s second complaint
(Complaint No. 3, which she initially dated August 27, 2020, but on which she changed the date
by interlineation to November 19, 2020), in which she complained about the manner the
Respondent examined her lower back.

Complaint 4, filed by Complainant 2 (Other Comments and Behavior
that the Respondent Subjected Complainant 2 to)

30. Complainant 2 took maternity leave sometime after the Respondent’s examination
of her back. When she returned to work, the Respondent told her how good she looked after just
giving birth. He also asked her how her sex life was after having the baby. She kept her answers
short, saying it was fine and everything was great.

31. On one occasion when Complainant 2 mistakenly handed the Respondent’s small

blade to him he told her to hand him the big blade, saying that he is a big boy and that she would

prefer his big boy over her husband. Complainant 2 interpreted the comment comparing a surgical —

instrument to male genitalia.

32. Around Halloween one year, the Respondent showed Complainant 2 a photo ofa
sexy nurse costume and suggested she buy and wear it for Halloween. She responded that the
costume was not her style or taste.

33. On another occasion, the Respondent commented on Complainant 2’s bra and bra
strap, saying that it must be her favorite one because she wore it often.

34. On one occasion, the Respondent followed Complainant 2 out of the OR toward
the front desk. In proximity to the OR secretary, the Respondent said that he wanted to take

Complainant 2 over his knee and spank her.
 

35, The Respondent said on one occasion that he wanted Complainant 2 to get on the
back of his motorcycle and they could run away if they wanted. He said she would look good on
his bike.

36. On another occasion, the Respondent took a photograph of Complainant 2’s eyes
while she was wearing a mask and cap, saying he took a picture of her eyes so he could look at it
later.

37. The Respondent regularly touched the back of Complainant 2’s neck. He would
stroke it up and down with his hands and comment that her neck was long and he could not stop
touching it. She would tell him to stop touching her neck.

38. The Respondent would grab Complainant 2’s “hair bun” and move her head up and
down.

39. On one occasion, the Respondent put his hand up Complainant 2’s pant leg when
she had trouble with her sock, saying he was impressed that she shaved.

40, The Respondent’s behavior made Complainant 2 uncomfortable and embarrassed.

41, On December 29, 2020, the Board received Complainant 2’s third coniplaint
(Complaint 4, which she dated August 27, 2020, but changed the date by interlineation to
November 19, 2020), in which she alleged the Respondent frequently touched her.

Complaint No. 5, filed by Individual 10

42. For the past sixteen years, Individual 10, a woman, has worked as a nurse at a

hospital in another State, most recently as Director of the Operating Room and Central Sterile.

She supervises forty-four employees, including techs, nurses, and scrubs.
 

 

43, From 1996 to 2006, Individual 10 worked at a hospital in the Baltimore region
(which is not the Hospital) as both a circulating and scrub nurse and as a coordinator for this
hospital’s neurosurgery, orthopedic surgery, ENT (ear, nose, and throat) and eye divisions. .

44, For two years in the early 2000’s, Individual 10 worked with the Respondent at the
Baltimore area hospital as a circulating or scrub nurse in his OR. When she circulated, she helped
to position and prep the patient, enter documentation, and get equipment. When she scrubbed, she
would be next to the Respondent handing him instruments.

45. Individual 10’s working relationship with the Respondent was cordial.

46. Individual 10 did not witness any unprofessional behavior on the part of the
Respondent at the Baltimore area hospital.

47. Early in 2017, Individual 10 had severe back pain. She had an MRI or X-ray. taken
in another State that revealed a synovial cyst in her back at L4 (the lowest portion of the lumbar
spine). The cyst had to be removed surgically so it would not push painfully on a nerve.

48. Individual 10 consulted the Respondent because when she worked at the Baltimore
area hospital the Respondent performed a complicated lumbar surgery on her father’s back, and
her father had an excellent outcome.

49. In March 2019, while she was working in another State, Individual 10 made an
appointment to see the Respondent at the Respondent’s private practice medical office in
Maryland. Individual 10 went to the appointment alone, was greeted at the front desk and taken
into an exam room. A female medical assistant or nurse came in, asked for her height and weight
and took her blood pressure, pulse, and respirations, went over her history of medications and past

surgeries, then excused herself and said the Respondent would see her in a few minutes.

 
