IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
EVA C. DICKINSON, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D57476 * Case Number: 2017-0162A
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

 

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A’) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of EVA C. DICKINSON, M.D.
(the “Respondent’), License Number D57476, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov't Il ("State Gov't II") § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2015 Supp.), concluding
that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that
the following facts are true:"

Licensure Information/Background
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to

practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to

‘ The statements regarding the Respondent's conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the summary suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a
complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
practice medicine in Maryland on April 27, 2001, under License Number D57476. The
Respondent's medical license is currently active and is scheduled for renewal on

September 30, 2018. The Respondent is also licensed to practice medicine in the State

of Delaware.
2. The Respondent is board-certified in emergency medicine.
3. The Respondent maintains a medical office in Harrington, Delaware. The

Respondent also provides medical care and sees patients at her Maryland residence.
Police investigation/Criminal charges

4. In or around September 2016, the Maryland State Police ("MSP") received
information that caused it to obtain a search and seizure warrant (the "Warrant") for the
Respondent's residence, which is located in Maryland.

5. MSP officers, acting in conjunction with the Caroline County Drug Task
Force, executed the Warrant on September 12, 2016. Upon entering the residence,
MSP officers detected the overwhelming odor of raw marijuana. Marijuana is a
Schedule | controlled dangerous substance ("CDS").

6. MSP officers found the Respondent upstairs in a makeshift laboratory
area of the residence. MSP officers searched the Respondent and found an unlabeled
pill bottle in her pocket that contained a variety of Schedule II opioid-containing pills (32
oxycodone pills, 35 morphine pills, 6 Hysingla pills, 9 hydromorphone pills, 6 Nucynta
pills); and a prescription-only medication (4 Vyvanse pills).

7. The MSP search found two marijuana growing operations in the
Respondent's master bedroom on the first floor. The main growing operation was

located in the open area of the bedroom and was housed in a tent-style structure. It
was equipped with a watering source, grow lights and fans, with three healthy, two-to-
three foot tall marijuana plants growing in buckets. The other growing operation was
found in the bedroom closet. It was equipped with grow lights, fans and a watering
system, and contained six marijuana plants. Next to the bed in the master bedroom
were seven additional marijuana plants, all of which were approximately less than one
inch tall. These plants were growing in an herbal starter kit equipped with lighting and a
watering system. Police also recovered a notebook containing what appeared to be
marijuana growing notes, and eight zip lock packets of suspected marijuana seeds from
the bedroom.

8. Police searched the exterior of the Respondent's residence and found
nine additional marijuana plants growing in pots at or around a detached garage that
was on the premises. All of the marijuana plants appeared to be healthy and well-
maintained.

9. Police searched the upstairs laboratory area and found three gallon-size
zip lock bags containing marijuana plant material on a table. Located inside the rear
closet of the laboratory was another unlabeled pill bottle that contained approximately
140 Tramadol pills, a narcotic analgesic and Schedule IV CDS; and 3 Tizanidine pills
(Tizanidine is a muscle relaxant and prescription-only medication). In that closet, police
also found an unlabeled pill bottle containing approximately 76 Lyrica pills (Lyrica is a
Schedule V CDS and an anti-seizure medication that is sometimes prescribed for
neuropathic pain) and 36 gabepentin pills (gabapentin is a prescription-only medication
prescribed for neuropathic pain). Located in the mini-refrigerator were three boxes of

"Belladonna-Opium" suppositories (each containing approximately 35 dosages), a
Schedule II CDS. These suppositories were prescribed to an individual who does not
reside at the residence.

10. Located in the bathroom area of the laboratory was a large wooden box
containing many empty Fentanyl sublingual spray applicators. Fentanyl is a Schedule II
CDS and opioid medication.

11. MSP officers arrested the Respondent for various drug offenses and
transported her to the Caroline County Sheriff's Office for processing.

12. On November 9, 2016, the Respondent was charged pursuant to a
Criminal Information in the Circuit Court for Caroline County with the following: one
count of manufacturing a Schedule | CDS (marijuana), a felony, in violation of Md. Code
Ann., Crim. Law ("Crim. Law") § 5-603; one count of possession of a Schedule Il CDS
(Belladonna and opium), a misdemeanor, in violation of Crim. Law § 5-601(a)(1); one
count of possession of a Schedule | CDS (marijuana), a misdemeanor, in violation of
Crim. Law § 5-601(a)(1); one count of possession of a Schedule IV CDS (Tramadol), a
misdemeanor, in violation of Crim. Law § 5-601(a)(1); one count of possession of a
Schedule Il CDS (oxycodone), a misdemeanor, in violation of Crim. Law § 5-601(a)(1);
and one count of possession of a Schedule II CDS (morphine), a misdemeanor, in
violation of Crim. Law § 5-601(a)(1). These criminal charges are pending.

Subsequent Board investigation
13. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent based on the

above information. On October 28, 2016, Board staff interviewed an_ individual
("Individual A")? who had information about the Respondent. Individual A stated that on
or about September 8, 2016, he/she observed "grow rooms" in the master bedroom of
the Respondent's residence, which he/she photographed and provided to Board staff.
Individual A stated that after making these observations, he/she reported the matter to
the police. Individual A stated that he/she never observed the Respondent use
marijuana but did witness her using "narcotic pills" and described her as an “addict.”
Individual A stated that the Respondent writes prescriptions for opioids for a "friend,"
who shares the prescriptions with her. Individual A stated that he/she had knowledge
that the Respondent has accepted the remainder of narcotics prescriptions from
patients and reconstituted them in her Maryland residence into a different form for sale.
Individual A also stated that one of the Respondent's former employees told him/her
that the Respondent takes used Fentanyl sublingual spray packaging home and ingests
the residual drug out of the spray applicator.

14. On November 17, 2016, Board staff scheduled an interview with the
Respondent. The Respondent arrived more than one hour late for the interview. As a
result, Board staff rescheduled the interview and instructed the Respondent to go to a
specific medical laboratory for toxicology testing at 1:00 p.m. Board staff provided the
Respondent with printed directions to the laboratory, which was approximately 12 miles
from the Board's office. The Respondent arrived at the laboratory more than two hours
late for her appointment. During that time, Board staff had multiple telephone
conversations with the Respondent, who sounded confused and disoriented. The

Respondent underwent testing that was positive for the presence of Fentanyl,

? For confidentiality purposes, the names of all individuals referenced herein, other than the Respondent,
will not be disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of any individual
referenced herein by contacting the assigned administrative prosecutor.

5
oxymorphone and oxycodone.

15. On November 28, 2016, Board staff interviewed the Respondent, who
appeared approximately two hours late for the interview. The Respondent claimed that
she was delayed because she had filed a police report for a break-in at her home the
previous night and that she had been "attacked." Board staff questioned the
Respondent about her delay in appearing for her toxicology screening. The
Respondent provided a series of explanations that included being unable to find the
person who drove her to the Board, stopping to eat, losing the directions to the
laboratory, and getting lost.

16. Board staff questioned the Respondent about whether her toxicology
screening would come back positive for any substances. The Respondent initially
replied no, but then stated that depending on how sensitive the hair test she underwent
was, she may test positive for Fentanyl, claiming that she had used a prescribed patch
for knee pain. The Respondent also stated that she did take "a couple of oxycodones"
too.

17. | The Respondent stated that although her medical office was in Delaware,
she also provided medical care and treatment to patients at her Maryland residence.
The Respondent cited one instance in which an individual stopped by her residence
because he "needed his prescription changed." Board investigation noted other
evidence that the Respondent practiced medicine in Maryland, including reports that
she kept patient files in her residence and personal vehicle. In addition, pharmacy
surveys indicate that the Respondent prescribed extensive amounts of CDS and

prescription medications in Maryland. The Respondent also admitted to police that she
saw patients at her Maryland residence.

18. The Board's investigation determined that the Respondent made
inconsistent statements regarding her knowledge of the CDS and marijuana that police
recovered as a result of the execution of the Warrant at her residence. In a written
submission to the Board, the Respondent claimed that the evidence against her was
"pointing to a conspiracy" and that she has "never sold, grown or used marijuana."
Likewise, in her Board interview, the Respondent stated that she knew nothing about
the marijuana that was growing in and around her home, and that the marijuana police
found there was "planted" by someone with an animus against her. Also, when
interviewed during her arrest, the Respondent stated that she did not know what
marijuana "looks or smells like." Board investigators, however, found an on-line news
article that described the Respondent as a medical advisor for a group that was "hoping
to get licensed to grow medical cannabis." In a video that accompanied the article, the
Respondent stated that she was involved in an ongoing project to grow cannabis with
aeroponics and that she was focusing on researching the use of cannabis in pain
management. In addition, during her Board interview, the Respondent addressed the
numerous plants found in the master bedroom by stating that she never went into the
"bedroom where they do the grow." Police reports, however, document that the
Respondent's name was affixed to the door of the master bedroom, and that she kept
articles of clothing, family photographs and packages addressed to her in the room.

19. The Respondent also provided several explanations for the CDS that
police recovered. For example, she stated that the oxycodone and morphine police

recovered from her pocket during the execution of the Warrant belonged to a friend who
was traveling with the pill containers. She stated that the Tramadol was prescribed for
her dog, although she stated to police that they were samples she no longer used in her
practice. The Respondent also stated that a patient gave her the Belladonna-Opium
suppositories for her to destroy them, which she had forgotten to do. The Respondent
also claimed that she possessed the Fentanyl containers because she was "a big
recycler repurposer."

20. Based on the above investigative facts, the Respondent presents a
substantial likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public health, safety and welfare.
The Respondent is currently facing felony CDS manufacturing charges and
misdemeanor CDS possession charges. The CDS possession charges involve, inter
alia, the possession of Schedule II opioid medications. During the Board's investigation,
the Respondent exhibited erratic, impaired and aberrant behaviors, and in toxicology
testing, tested positive for multiple opioid medications.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board
concludes that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency
action, and that pursuant to State Gov't Il § 10-226(c)(2), the Respondent's license is

immediately suspended.

ORDER

 

IT IS by a vote of Panel A of the Board, hereby:
ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. Il §
10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2015 Supp.), the Respondent's license to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland be and is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and
it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7), a post-
deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday,
January 11, 2017, at 9:00 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing
before Panel A, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may
request, within ten (10) days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty
(30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt
Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and it is further

ORDERED that upon receipt of this Order, the Respondent SHALL
SURRENDER to Board staff the following items:

(1) her original Maryland license D57476; and

(2) Any renewal, wallet card or wall certificate.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall provide patients with
access to and copies of medical records upon request and shall have a continuing
duty, on proper request, to provide details of a patient's medical record to a patient,
another physician or a hospital in accordance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health

General Article; and it is further
ORDERED a copy of the Order of Suspension shall be filed with Panel A
immediately in accordance with Health Occ. Il § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it is

further
 

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014).

(ol>e/Ib aie Ne of

Date Ellen oe Smith, Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

     

10
