IN THE MATTER OF % BEFORE THE

CAROLINE ANNE GERHARDT, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent - BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D60595 e Case Number: 2015-0859 A
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On February 10, 2016, Disciplinary Panel A (Panel A”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) voted to charge Caroline Anne Gerhardt, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D60595 under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. Il”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl.
Vol. & 2015 Supp.).

Panel A voted to charge the Respondent with violating the following:

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(9) Provides professional services:
(ii) While using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance, as
defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is
in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical
indication[.]
The following provision of the American Medical Association Code of Medical

Ethics is pertinent in part to the charge of unprofessional conduct in the practice of

medicine:
Opinion 8.19 — Self-treatment or Treatment of Immediate Family Members (June
1993)

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their immediate
families. Professional objectivity may be compromised when an immediate
family member or the physician is the patient; the physician’s personal feelings
may unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment, thereby
interfering with the care being delivered. Physicians may fail to probe sensitive
areas when taking the medical history or may fail to perform intimate parts of the
physical examination...VWhen treating themselves or immediate family members,

physicians may be inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or
training.

...Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write
prescriptions for controlled substances for themselves or immediate family
members. (I, Il, lV)

Prior to the issuance of formal disciplinary charges, Respondent agreed to enter
into the following public Consent Order, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of
Law, and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A finds the following:

I. Background

qt At all times relevant hereto, Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland in June 2003. Respondent last renewed her license in or about
September 2014, which will expire on September 30, 2016.

2. Respondent is board-certified by American Board of Emergency Medicine
in Emergency Medicine.

A Since June 2003, Respondent has worked for an emergency medicine

group practice for a couple of years, for a hospital in a rural county of Maryland for a
couple of years, for Locums Tenens for a couple of years, and for a hospital in
Baltimore City for a couple of years. In or about November 2014, Respondent began
employment at another hospital in Baltimore City (“Hospital A”).
4. Respondent does not at this time hold any hospital privileges.
Il. Complaint
5. On June 10, 2015, the Board received a telephone complaint from an
anonymous caller stating that Respondent, an emergency room physician, tested
positive for alcohol while at work. The Investigation described below indicated that
Respondent tested positive for alcohol on June 2, 2015, a non-working day.
6. On July 16, 2015, the Board received a “Mandated 10-day Report”’ from
Hospital A. According to the Report:
On June 1, 2015, Dr. Gerhardt was noted to have slurred speech and
different irregular handwriting while working. Toxicology results were
received the next day and Dr. Gerhardt acknowledged "falling off the
wagon.” Dr. Gerhardt was informed that she would be supported in
receiving help from appropriate professionals & could return after she was
cleared to return to work, and referrals were made. On July 14, the
hospital learned that Dr. Gerhardt had not enrolled in the Med-Chi

Physician Health Program. On July 15, her privileges were summarily
suspended and she tendered her resignation.

lll. Investigation of Complaint
ibe On July 17, 2015, pursuant to a subpoena, the Board received
Respondent's risk management/quality assurance (RM/QA) file from Hospital A. The
RM/QA file contained a memorandum of June 2, 2105 from the Chairman of the

Department of Emergency Medicine of Hospital A and noted the following:

' Pursuant to Health Occ. Il § 14-413(a), a hospital is required to report to the Board if a licensed
physician who has privileges with the hospital has had staff privileges changed, if the change is for
reasons that might be grounds for disciplinary action. The hospital shall submit the report within 10 days
of the action.
Yesterday, June 1, 2015, at approximately 7:00 pm, | was called at home
by (Physician 1) and notified that she had just been called by (Physician
Assistant A) and informed that (Physician Assistant B), who was working
in the ED, had contacted her with concerns that Dr Caroline Gerhardt may
be impaired. (Physician Assistant B) had noted slurred speech and
different, irregular handwriting. Because of these suspicions | returned to
the ED.

On arrival to the ED at approximately 8:00 pm, | met with (ED physician)
and we interviewed Dr Gerhardt in the ED office. It was apparent that Dr.
Gerhardt was indeed slurring her words and seemed slow to respond.
She was not lethargic and | did not smell any odor of alcohol. | asked Dr
G about a possible reason for her slurred speech and she stated that she
had taken Benadryl 50 mg in the morning for seasonal allergies. She
denied taking any opiate pain medication, any benzodiazepines
medication, Tramadol, or any medication besides the Benadryl. She
denied drinking any alcohol, and as on previous questioning, stated she
does not drink alcohol. | made my concerns known to Dr G and told her
she could not continue her shift and | would like to have her tested for
blood alcohol and a urine tox screen. | also said that she could not return
to work until she was tested and we had the results. ... (Physician
Assistant C) also stated she noted slurred speech.

Today (June 2, 2015) | contacted Dr. G ... and told her to come to
(Hospital A) outpatient lab where she agreed to have blood drawn for
alcohol and a urine tox screen. While waiting for the results Dr G informed

me that she had taken Ativan last night after leaving the ED because of a

panic attack...Physician 1 had informed me earlier that Dr G had told her

that she had taken Tylenol #3 for cramps 3 days ago.... | asked Dr G

about the BAL 36 and she then said ‘I had a beer last night.’ ...she then

said she had more than one beer.

8. On July 30, 2015, the Board directed Respondent to submit a response to
the complaint within ten business days.

9. On August 28, 2015, Respondent signed a voluntary agreement with the
Maryland Physician Health Program ("MPHP”) wherein she agreed to cease the
practice of medicine immediately until informed otherwise by MPHP.

10. On August 31, 2015, the Board received Respondent's written response

which contained the following:
It has come to my attention that an anonymous complaint was filed
against me June 1, 2015. | was said to have had slurred speech and
irregular handwriting at work. | do not recall being impaired at work at any
time during that day. | had taken an Ativan? and a Benadryl as prescribed
for a panic attack prior to work on June 1, which may have been what was
observed.

Subsequently - on June 2, 24 hours later, on my nonworking day | was
asked to come in to the hospital for a random toxicology. | had had a

drink at lunch this day, as | was not working and did not expect testing. |

was well known to be a long time non drinker by staff, so when my alcohol

level was mildly elevated, | had to admit | had fallen off the wagon, in that |

had not maintained total abstinence. At no time did | drink before or
during work, or to excess. | admit to an ongoing problem with alcohol
abuse, and | had relapsed — | had previously been sober 5 % years.

11. On December 4, 2015, Board staff interviewed Respondent under oath.

Respondent testified to the following:

... | had an anxiety attack before work, took an Ativan and Benadryl. | was
reportedly sleepy, and | admit that | was sleepy at work and sent home.

The following day, 24 hours later, on a non-workday, | was asked to come in and

do toxicology and | had been drinking that day. And | reiterate this was a non-

workday. And on that day | tested positive for alcohol.

I've self-prescribed Ativan...

12. On December 17, 2015, the Board received a facsimile of the laboratory
report from Hospital A. The report of urine and blood drug testing collected on June 2,
2015 at 3:55 p.m. revealed the following:

a. Urine for Opiate Scrn detected; and

b. Ethanol level 36" mg/dL.

13. Pursuant to a Board subpoena to area pharmacies, a computer printout
from one of the pharmacies confirmed that Respondent wrote the following prescriptions

for herself:

? Ativan, the brand name of lorazepam, which is in a group of drugs known as benzodiazepine, is used to
treat anxiety. Ativan is a Schedule IV Controlled Dangerous Substance.
g.
h.

2/20/25 - Alprazolam® 0.5 mg, 120 tablets, 3 refills;

4/4/15 - Lorazepam‘ 0.5 mg, 120 tablets, 0 refills;

5/18/15 - Lorazepam 0.5 mg, 90 tablets, 0 refills;

6/19/15 - Lorazepam 0.5 mg, 90 tablets,1 refill;

8/11/15 - Lorazepam 0.5 mg , 90 tablets, 2 refills;

6/7/15 - Zolpidem Tartrate°10 mg, 60 tablets®, 0 refills;
7/12/15 - Zolpidem Tartrate 10 mg, 60 tablets’, 1 refill; and

8/12/15 - Zolpidem Tartrate 10 mg, 60 tablets’, 2 refills.

IV. Finding of Unprofessional Conduct in the Practice of Medicine

14.
medicine by:

a.

Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of

Having slurred speech, irregular handwriting, and being slow to respond
while on duty in the emergency room;

Taking Ativan and Benadryl which caused slurred speech, irregular
handwriting, and slow responses as observed by others while on duty
during the day in the emergency room and as late as 8:00 pm;

Self-prescribing controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) for her personal
use on eight occasions between February 10, 2015 and August 12, 2015;
and

* Alprozolam, a generic form of Xanax, is a Schedule IV benzodiazepine, used to treat anxiety disorders
and panic disorders.

* Lorazepam, a generic form of Ativan, is a Schedule lV benzodiazepine, used to treat anxiety disorders.

® Zolpidem Tartrate is a sedative/hypnotic that is used to treat insomnia, which shares some characteristics
of a family of sedatives called benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines cause sedation, muscle relaxation, act as
anticonvulsants (anti-seizure medications), and reduce anxiety. One of the brand names of Zolpidem
Tartrate is Ambien. Zolpidem is a Schedule IV CDS.

® Thirty tablets were dispensed.

’ Thirty tablets were dispensed.

® Thirty tablets were dispensed.
d. Providing inconsistent statements to the chair of the ED, who she told she
had taken Ativan after work; and in her response to the Board and in her
interview, where she stated that she took Ativan before work.

Vi. Finding of “Provides Professional Services While Using Any Controlled
Dangerous Substance”

15. Respondent's provision of professional services while using CDS is
evidenced by:

a. Having slurred speech, irregular handwriting, and being slow to respond
while on duty in the emergency room; and

b. Taking Ativan which caused slurred speech, irregular handwriting, and
slow responses as observed by others while on duty during the day in the
emergency room and as late as 8:00 pm.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board
concludes as a matter of law that Respondent violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii)
(unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine) and (a)(9)(ii)(Provides professional
services while using any controlled dangerous substance.)

ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, by a
majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that Respondent's license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED for a
minimum of six (6) months from the date that Panel A executes this Consent Order.
During the suspension, the Respondent shall fully and satisfactorily comply with all of
the following terms and conditions:

1. Within ten (10) business days of the date that Panel A executes this Order,

Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Physician Rehabilitation Program
(‘MPRP") and enter into a Board-monitored Rehabilitation Agreement for
the length of time directed by the MPRP and shall fully, timely, and
satisfactorily cooperate and comply with all MPRP directions and
requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of all
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with
MPRP, obtain evaluation and treatment as directed by the MPRP,
complete abstinence challenge with random monitored toxicology screens
as required by the MPRP, self-help fellowship meetings and in-patient
substance/alcohol abuse treatment as directed by the MPRP;

Within ten (10) business days of the date that Panel A executes this Order,
Respondent shall sign any written release/consent forms, and update
them, as required by Panel A or the Board and the MPRP. Specifically,
Respondent shall sign any written release/consent forms required by the
Board to authorize the MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to
Disciplinary Panel A or the Board, including disclosure of any and all
MPRP records and files and confidential drug and alcohol abuse
information about Respondent. Respondent shall also sign any written
release/ consent forms required by the MPRP to authorize the MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclosure to and receive from) outside entities
(including any of Respondent's treatment providers) verbal and written
information about her, including confidential drug and alcohol abuse
information; and

Respondent shall be responsible for assuring that any treatment
provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and to Panel A or the
Board at least once every three (3) months regarding her attendance,
progress, payment of fees, and recommendations as to the continuation,
frequency, and/or termination of treatment. Respondent shall sign any
consent forms required to authorize Panel A or the Board and the MPRP
to receive written reports from any treating mental health and health
professionals or any treatment providers, if any;

And it is further ORDERED that after a minimum of six (6) months, if the MPRP

determines that Respondent is safe to practice medicine, and if Respondent has

complied with the conditions above, Respondent may petition Panel A or the Board

serving as the Reinstatement Inquiry Panel of the Board to lift the suspension of

Respondent's license, Upon reinstatement, Panel A or the Board may impose

conditions on Respondent's return to practice, and it is further

ORDERED that if Respondent violates any of the terms and conditions of this
Consent Order, Disciplinary Panel A or the Board, in its discretion, after notice and an
opportunity for a show cause hearing before Panel A or the Board, or opportunity for an
evidentiary hearing before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative
Hearings if there is a genuine dispute as to the underlying material facts, may reprimand
the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent's medical license; and be it further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014 & 2015 Supp.).

OA 14/20 Nb

: Vth
Dat Christine A. Farrelly, Exécutive Directf/

 

CONSENT
|, Caroline Anne Gerhardt, M.D., License No. D60595, by affixing my signature
hereto, acknowledge that:

rt, | have consulted with counsel, Carolyn Jacobs, Esquire, and knowingly and
voluntarily elect to enter into this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the
purpose of resolving the issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be
bound by the foregoing Consent Order and its conditions.

o | am aware that | am entitled to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. II § 14-405 (2014 Repl. Vol.) and Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov't II §§ 10-201 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.).

3. | acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if
entered into after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which |
would have the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf, and to all other substantive and procedural
protections as provided by law. | am waiving those procedural and
substantive protections.

4. | voluntarily enter into and agree to abide by the terms and conditions set
forth herein as a resolution of the Charges against me. | waive any right to
contest the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and | waive my right to a
full evidentiary hearing, as set forth above, and my right to appeal any
adverse ruling of a disciplinary panel of the Board that might have followed
any such hearing, and any right to appeal this Consent Order.

3} | sign this Consent Order voluntarily, without reservation, and | fully
understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms of this
Consent Order.

  
   

Date Caroline Gérhardt, M.D., Respondent

NOTARY

STATE OF MA lana
citvicounTy oF WA lena

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this LC day of +t lb , 2016
before me, a Notary Public of the State and County aforesaid, personally appeared
Caroline Anne Gerhardt, M.D, License number D60595, and gave oath in due form of
law that the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

Oye My commission expires _| | PHI

Notary Public
