IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
MICKEY O. MILLS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D61073 * Case Number: 2218-0082B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the “Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Mickey O. Mills,
M.D., (the “Respondent’), license number D61073, to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland. Disciplinary Panel B takes such action pursuant to its
authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov't Il (“State Gov't”) § 10-226(c)(2) (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a) concluding
that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and
available to Panel B and the Office of the Attorney General, including the
instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the following facts
are true:"
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent has been licensed to practice

medicine in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice

‘The statements regarding the Respondent's conduct are intended to provide the Respondent
with notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily
represent a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered
against the Respondent in connection with this matter.
medicine in Maryland on November 20, 2003. Her license is scheduled to
expire on September 30, 2018.

The Respondent is board-certified in Family Medicine.

In or around August 2012, the Respondent began employment at an
urgent care medical practice (“Practice A”) in Crofton, Maryland.

On or about October 27, 2017, Practice A’s Human Resources Manager
submitted to the Board a Mandated 10-Day Report regarding the
Respondent.

Specifically, the Report stated that on or about October 25, 2017, Practice
A suspended the Respondent.

The Report stated that the Respondent had been observed behaving
erratically and unprofessionally while seeing patients.” Specifically, the
Respondent was observed to have fallen asleep during patient visits.

After these observations were brought to her attention, the Respondent
entered into an in-patient program, to which she had been referred by the
Maryland Physicians Health Program (MPHP). However, Practice A was
then notified that the Respondent checked herself out before completing
the program.

Based on the Report, the Board initiated an investigation.

? To maintain confidentiality, specific instances of behavior may not be referenced in this
document. The Respondent has been notified by Practice A of its concerns. The Respondent
may obtain from the Administrative Prosecutor documents related to these instances.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14,

15.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board’s investigator contacted
relevant witnesses and obtained documents, including records from
Practice A, MPHP, and programs. The investigation revealed the
following:

After being referred to an in-patient center (“Center A”) by MPHP, the
Respondent checked herself out prior to completing the program.

The Respondent was subsequently readmitted, but was then discharged
for noncompliance with the center's rules and for possession of
unapproved controlled dangerous substances.

The Respondent then entered into the in-patient program at a different in-
patient center (“Center B”), which subsequently referred her to a more
intensive program (“Center C”).

The Respondent submitted a written response to the Complaint, in which
she stated that in the days leading up to her suspension from Practice A,
she had taken “some old prescribed valium for several nights to try to
sleep.”

The Respondent's personnel file from Practice A also documents several
related instances of unprofessional conduct and treatment errors
consistent with impairment, including entering the wrong dosage on
prescriptions and ordering tests but then forgetting that she had ordered
them.

The file also contains documented admissions from the Respondent

stating she is attempting to wean herself off opioids.
16. On or about November 21, 2017, the Board received an updated
Mandated 10-Day Report from Practice A informing the Board that,

effective November 15, 2017, the Respondent had resigned.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the foregoing investigative findings, Panel B concludes that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this
case, pursuant to State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2), and Md. Code Regs.
10.32.02.08B(7)(a).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing investigative findings and conclusions of law, it is,
by a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by State Gov't § 10-
226(c)(2), the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
be and is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation Summary Suspension Hearing in
accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08 B(7), C & E has been scheduled
for Wednesday, December 20, 2017, at 11:15 a.m. before Panel B at the
Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation Summary
Suspension Hearing held before Panel B, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the

result of the hearing, may request within ten (10) calendar days an evidentiary
hearing, such hearing to be held within thirty (30) calendar days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-
1301; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed
with the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II § 14-407 (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is a Final Order of the Board and, as such, is a

PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.

izJis [2017
D

ate

 
