Mickey O. Mills, M.D.

Date: T une | i, LOZO

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Mickey O. Mills, M.D.

License Number: D61073

Case Number: 7718-0095

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. (“Health Oce.”)
§4-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D61073, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 e
seg, and other applicable laws, In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland,

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I entered a Consent Order on April 6, 2018 with Disciplinary Panel B of the
Board that concluded that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine), (4) (Professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent in the practice of medicine), (8) (Addicted to, or habitually abuses, any
narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article), and (9)(ii) (Provides professional services while using any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug
that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication).

The Consent Order required me to enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (MPRP) and comply with all terms and conditions of MPRP. I
acknowledge that the Board is currently investigating allegations of violations of the
Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Mickey O. Mills, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

MPRP terms and conditions and violation of the Consent Order. A copy of the Consent
Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and because
I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order. I acknowledge that the
Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however,
upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the
conditions of the Order as long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree
to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of
Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board or a disciplinary panel of the
Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland
License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement;
and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose terms and conditions in conformity with
or in addition to those set forth in the Consent Order. I further understand that if I ever
file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
ORDERED that if, after the appropriate hearing, the Board or a disciplinary
panel determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel may reprimand
the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent's license to practice as a
physician in Maryland. The Board or a disciplinary panel a disciplinary panel may,
in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary
fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in
fulfilling the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period
prescribed in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The
Consent Order goes into effect upon the signature of the Board's Executive
Director, who signs on behalf of Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md.

Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014 Vol. & 2017 Supp.).

   

cd ey ao a a
so, 9618 fg é we, *
April b 2048 Chiietin A Pare uy.
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Exesutive Direct tj
Maryland State Board of sicians
CONSENT

I, Mickey O. Mills, M.D., acknowledge that | have had the opportunity to
consult with counsel at this and all stages of this matter. | understand that this
Consent Order will resolve the Charges and Order for Summary Suspension
issued against me in the above referenced case. By this Consent and for the sole
purpose of resolving the issues raised by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board, | agree
and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent Order and its conditions. |
acknowledge that the Findings of Fact and the Conclusions of Law contained in
this Consent Order will be treated as proven as if entered into after the conclusion
of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and to
all other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to chatlenge these Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.
| acknowledge the legal authority and jurisdiction of the Disciplinary Panel A to
initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order. | affirm
that | waive my right to any appeal in this matter. | affirm that | have asked and
received satisfactory answers to all my questions regarding the language,
meaning, and terms of this Consent Order. | sign this Consent Order, voluntarily
and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the language,

meaning, and terms of this Consent Order.

| — Signature on File
Appi k ¢, 29 §
Date Mickey O. Milis7M.D. ‘

The Respondent
NOTARY

sTaTE oF _NVaniland
CITY/COUNTY OF Mbikapneny

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this “| day of _Apr\\

, 2018, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and
City/County personally appeared Mickey O. Mills, M.D., and made oath in due form

of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notary seal.

 
  
   

ely |
W WLW
\/ UY

My commission expires:

VIVIAN NICOLLE DEL VALLE
Notary Public. State of Maryland
Montgomery County
My Commission Expires September 13, 2021
Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Mickey O, Mills, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender, I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this
letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the
nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I
understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender, I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File
Mickey O, Mills, M.D.

NOTARY
STATE OF Na land
CITY/COUNTY OF W\pni9pmem
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this day of Wine , 2020 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Mickey O. Mills, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

      

ESTHER O OKONKWO
NOTARY PUBLIC
MONTGOMERY COUNTY
MARYLAND
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES JULY 23, 2023

   

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal,

     
 
   

  
  

    
 

7
Notary Public

My commission expires: Ot+la 3) 20% 3

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this | ] day of Sv , 2020, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept Mickey O. Mills, M.D.’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of her license to

practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
e e
Signature on File
Christine A. Hasty, Aen ve iseiat )

Maryland Board of Physicia'

 
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MICKEY O. MILLS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D61073 * Case Number: 2218-0082B

CONSENT ORDER
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

On or about December 15, 2017, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) CHARGED Mickey O. Mills,
M.D., (the “Respondent”), license number D61073, under the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-401
et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.)

The pertinent provisions of the Act under Health Occ. 14-404(a) provided
as follows:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and
revocations -- Grounds

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if
the licensee:

(3) — Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;
(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or

controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the
Criminal Law Article;
(9) Provides professional services:
(ii) While using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic
amounts or without valid medical indication[.]

On or about December 15, 2017, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) SUMMARILY SUSPENDED the
license of the Respondent to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Disciplinary Pane! B took such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code
Ann., State Gov't Il (“State Gov't”) § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.)
and Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a) concluding that the public health, safety
or welfare imperatively requires 6mergency action.

. On or about March 28, 2018, a Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution
("DCCR’”) was held at the Board’s office, and the Respondent attended. Following
the DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order,
consisting of Procedural Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order,
Consent, and Notary,

FINDINGS OF FACT

_ Panel B makes the following Findings of Fact:

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent has been licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on November 20, 2003. Her license is scheduled to
expire on September 30, 2018. .

2. The Respondent is board-certified in Family Medicine.
10.

In or around August 2012, the Respondent began employment at an urgent
care medical practice (‘Practice A”) in Crofton, Maryland.

On or about October 27, 2017, Practice A’s Human Resources Manager
submitted to the Board a Mandated 10-Day Report regarding the
Respondent.

Specifically, the Report stated that on or about October 25, 2017, Practice
A suspended the Respondent.

The Report stated that the Respondent had been observed behaving
erratically and unprofessionally while seeing patients.' Specifically, the
Respondent was observed to have fallen asleep during patient visits.

After these observations were brought to her attention, the Respondent
entered into an in-patient program, to which she had been referred by the
Maryland Physicians Health Program (MPHP). However, Practice A was
then notified that the Respondent checked herself out before completing the
program.

Based on the Report, the Board initiated an investigation.

In furtherance of the investigation, the Board’s investigator contacted
relevant witnesses and obtained documents, including records from
Practice A, MPHP, and programs. The investigation revealed the following:
After being referred to an in-patient center (“Center A”) by MPHP, the

Respondent checked herself out prior to completing the program.

1 To maintain confidentiality, specific instances of behavior may not be referenced in this Order.
The Respondent is aware of the behavior referenced herein.
11.

12.

13.

14,

15.

16.

The Respondent was subsequently readmitted, but was then discharged for
noncompliance with the center's rules and for possession of unapproved
controlled dangerous substances (CDS).

The Respondent then entered into the in-patient program at a different in-
patient center (“Center B”), which subsequently referred her to a more
intensive program (“Center C’”). .

The Respondent submitted a written response to the Complaint, in which
she stated that in the days leading up to her suspension from Practice A,
she-had taken “some old prescribed [CDS] for several nights to try to sleep.”
The Respondent’s personnel file from Practice A also documents several
related instances of unprofessional conduct and treatment errors consistent
with impairment, including entering the wrong dosage on prescriptions and
ordering tests but then forgetting that she had ordered them.

The file also contains documented admissions from the Respondent stating
she is attempting to wean herself off opioids.

On or about November 21, 2017, the Board received an updated Mandated
10-Day Report from Practice A informing the Board that, effective

November 15, 2017, the Respondent had resigned.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing facts, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that the

Respondent's conduct, as described above, in whole or in part, constitutes a

violation of the above-cited disciplinary grounds under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)

(3)(ii), (4), (8) & (8)(i/).
ORDER

 

IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that this Consent Order supersedes the Order for Summary
Suspension, dated December 15, 2017, and the summary suspension is hereby
terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent's license to practice as a physician in
Maryland is SUSPENDED, subject to the following terms and conditions:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP"), Within 5 business days of
the effective date of the Consent Order, the Respondent shall
contact MPRP to schedule an_ initial consultation for
enrollment. Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall
enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. The Respondent
shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all.of MPRP's
referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all
therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as
directed by MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written
release/consent forms requested or required by the Board
and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written
disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any and all
MPRP_ records and. files possessed by MPRP. The
Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms
to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and
receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent
and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol treatment records; and

3. The Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that any
treatment provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and
to the Board at least once every three (3) months regarding
her attendance, progress, payment of fees, and
recommendations as to the continuation, frequency, and/or
termination of treatment. The Respondent shail sign any
consent forms required to authorize the Board and the MPRP
to receive written reports from her treating mental health and
health professionals or any treatment providers.

And it is further

ORDERED if MPRP finds that the Respondent is safe to return to practice
as a physician and if the Respondent has complied with the conditions above, the
Respondent may petition Panel B to terminate the suspension of the Respondent's
license. If Panel B determines that it is safe for the. Respondent to return to
practice, the suspension shall be terminated, and Panel B may impose any
conditions and terms it deems appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice
as a physician, including, but not limited to, probation and continuing participation

in MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical
Practice Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seqg., and all laws and
regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall
be given a show cause hearing before the Board or a disciplinary panel; and it is

further
