IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

SUSAN D. RICH, M.D * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
RESPONDENT * OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D62027 * Case Number: 7719-0064

* * * x x x * * % * x & *

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION
On January 22, 2019, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians, (the “Board”) and Susan D. Rich, M.D., (“Respondent”), license number D62027,
entered into a Consent Order, (“Order”) wherein the Respondent was reprimanded and
suspended for 60 days, effective 30 days from the date of the Order. Upon the termination of
suspension, Panel B ordered that the Respondent be placed on probation for a minimum period
of 10 months, with terms and conditions.
On February 21, 2019, the Respondent’s license was suspended. Based upon the conclusion
of the 60-day suspension period, it is hereby
ORDERED that the suspension imposed under the January 22, 2019 Consent Order is
TERMINATED; and it is further
ORDERED that the reprimand remains in effect; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of ten
months. During the probationary period, the Respondent shall fully and satisfactorily comply
with the following probationary terms and conditions:
(a) The Respondent shall take TWO courses. The first course shall be in ethics. A second
course shall be in proper record-keeping practices. The following terms apply to each

course:
1. It is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the courses before they are begun;

2. The disciplinary panel will not accept courses taken over the internet;

3. The Respondent shall enroll in and successfully complete panel approved
courses within six months;

4. The Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that the
Respondent has successfully completed the courses;

5. The courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal; and

6. The Respondent is responsible for the cost of the courses.

(b) Dr. Rich shall pay a civil fine of $15,000.00. The payment shall be by money order or
bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed
to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not renew or
reinstate the Respondent’s license if the Respondent fails to timely pay the fine to the
Board;

(c) The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-01 — 14-702, and all federal and state laws and regulations
governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has passed the

Respondent may submit a written petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant the
petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel if there are no
pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by the Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity for a
hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an
Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions
process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the
Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by the Consent Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on an extended period
of probation, or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland.
The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a
civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.

§§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014 & 2017 Supp.).

 

=
D eter Douglas )

ate
Deputy Director
Maryland Board of Physicians
