IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

SUSAN D. RICH, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS

License Number: D62027 * Case Number: 2217-0116B

PER IR II III I I III I RRR KR AKER KKK REE

CONSENT ORDER
On August 15, 2018 Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board

of Physicians (the “Board”) charged SUSAN DIANE RICH, M.D., (the “Respondent”),
License Number D62027, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) and (40) (2014 Repl. Vol.

2017 Supp.).
The pertinent provisions of the Act provide:

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of §14-405 of this subtitle, a disciplinary panel,
on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the disciplinary panel,
may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or
revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine [and]

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate
peer review[.]
FINDINGS OF FACT

L BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent was and is licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally
licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on June 29, 2004 under license
number D62027. The Respondent’s license is current through September 30,
2019.

2. The Respondent is board certified in Psychiatry with subspecialty certificate
in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.

3. The Respondent is a solo-practitioner operating a practice in Potomac,
Maryland, which focuses on the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of Fetal
Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (“FASD”).!

4. The Respondent has also established a non-profit organization. Through this
organization the Respondent operates a therapeutic farm to help individuals
with FASD.

5. The Respondent operates her practice, as well as the non-profit organization
and therapeutic farm out of her residence in Potomac, Maryland.

6. On or about June 21, 2017, the Board received a complaint from a former

patient (“Patient 1”)? of the Respondent. The complaint alleges that the

1 Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders include an array of conditions that can occur in an individual whose mother
consumed alcohol during pregnancy. The related disorders are implicated in physiological abnormalities, as well as
behavioral and learning problems.

2 To ensure confidentiality and privacy, the names of individuals involved in this case, other than the Respondent,
are not disclosed in this document.
(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or
provider number by any health care practice or any other licensee
or health care provider;

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or
other medical facility in the state;

(5) dispense medications, or

(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

(b) The Respondent shall establish and implement a procedure by which the
Respondent’s patients may obtain their medical records without undue
burden and notify all patients of that procedure; and

(c) The Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and

(d) The Respondent shall notify in writing all Athletic Trainers with whom
there is an evaluation and treatment protocol and all Physician Assistants
with whom there is a delegation agreement that all Evaluation and
Treatment Protocols for Athletic Trainers and all Delegation Agreements
for Physician Assistants are terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the

Consent Order has passed the disciplinary panel will administratively terminate the

Respondent’s suspension through an order of the disciplinary panel; and it is further

11
ORDERED that upon termination, the Respondent is placed on

PROBATION for a minimum period of 10 MONTHS.’ During the probationary

period the Respondent shall comply with the following probationary terms and

conditions:

(a) The Respondent is required to take TWO courses. The first course shall

be in ethics. A second course shall be in proper record-keeping practices.

The following terms apply to each course:

1.

It is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain
the disciplinary panel’s approval of the courses before they are
begun;

The disciplinary panel will not accept courses taken over the
internet;

The Respondent shall enroll in and successfully complete panel
approved courses within six months;

The Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary
panel that the Respondent has successfully completed the courses;
The courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal; and

The Respondent is responsible for the cost of the courses.

7 If the Respondent’s license expires while the Respondent is on probation, the probationary period and any
probationary conditions will be tolled.

12
(b) The Respondent shall pay a civil fine of $15,000. The payment shall be
by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland
Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland
21297. The Board will not renew or reinstate the Respondent’s license if
the Respondent fails to timely pay the fine to the Board;
(c) The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act,
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §14-401 — 14-702, and all federal and state
laws and regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and
it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of
probation; and it is further
ORDERED that after the Respondent has complied with all terms and
conditions of probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the
Consent Order has passed the Respondent may submit a written petition for
termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be
terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be
required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his or her petition for
termination. The disciplinary panel may grant the petition to terminate the
probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel if there are no pending
complaints relating to the charges; and it is further
ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term

or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice

13
and an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary
panel; and if there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall
be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions

set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the
Consent Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her
designee. The Executive Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the
disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent

Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in

fulfilling the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code

Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

14
 

 

drfez [20 | Caicte A
Date Christine A. Farrelly \

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT
I, Susan D. Rich, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before

signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for

amendments or modifications to any condition.

L assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive these rights and have elected to sign this Consent

Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusions of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right
to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those
procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the
jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce
this Consent Order.

15
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights

to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms.

Signature on File

0/11 12014 _ _
Date Susan D. Rich, M.D.
Respondent
NOTARY

STATE OF nro NR
CITY/COUNTY OF MTOCAVL,

(
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this itt day of(_ YUL AhY ;

 

2019, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County
personally appear Susan D. Rich, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that

signing the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notary seal.

  
 
 

   

) We
Notary/Public

My commission expires:

 

TANGELA MARIE CONNELLY |

NOTARY PUBLIC
BALTIMORE COUNTY
16 MARYLAND
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES APRIL 19, 2022
Respondent, after diagnosing Patient 1 with FASD, had Patient 1 move into
the Respondent’s residence with her where Patient | resided while
undergoing treatment. Patient 1’s treatment plan included completing
household chores, acting as an unpaid au pair, and caring for the
Respondent’s farm animals.
7. Based on the complaint, Panel B initiated an investigation of the Respondent.
L BOARD INVESTIGATION

8. On or about August 8, 2017, board staff conducted an interview with Patient
1, as well as Patient 1’s mother.

9. On or about September 11, 2017, board staff sent an initial contact letter to
the Respondent, along with a subpoena for six patient medical and billing
records including those pertaining to Patient 1. This information was duly
provided to board staff along with various other patient medical, billing, and
prescriptions drug records.

10. On or about November 30, 2017, the Board sent the six patient medical and
billing records and related investigative materials to a peer review entity for
independent review by two board certified Psychiatrists.

11.Upon review of the records, the peer reviewers concurred that the
Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
with regards to Patient 1. The peer reviewers also concurred that the
Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records with regards to Patients

1, 2, 4, and 5.
12. On September 28, 2017 the Respondent appeared for an interview with board

staff.

Tf. PATIENT-SPECIFIC ALLEGATIONS
PATIENT 1

13. Patient 1, a female born in the 1990’s, initially saw the Respondent on or
about January 7, 2016 for an FASD evaluation at her parents’ behest. Patient
1 had a history of prenatal alcohol exposure, neurodevelopmental problems,
as well as alcohol and drug abuse with episodes of overdose which
previously resulted in enrollment in residential treatment programs. Patient
1 also demonstrated a history of psychosocial dysfunction, eating disorders,
prior trauma and academic difficulties.

14. The Respondent began seeing Patient 1 approximately one to five times per
week for individual psychotherapy sessions, as well as parental psychosocial
and educational meetings.

15.The Respondent diagnosed Patient 1 with FASD, Post-Traumatic Stress
Disorder (“PTSD”), and Neurobehavioral Disorder associated with Prenatal

Alcohol Exposure (“ND-PAE.”)*

3 PTSD is a mental health disorder that develops in some people who have experienced a shocking, scary or
dangerous event according to the National Institutes of Mental Health.

4ND-PAE is one of the group of Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders that can result from being exposed to alcohol in-
utero.
16.In or around March 2016, the Respondent advised Patient 1 and her parents
that Patient 1 should move into the Respondent’s residence to continue her
treatment. An agreement to that effect was entered by the aforementioned
parties on or about March 13, 2016.

17. Per the agreement, Patient 1 was to meet with the Respondent for individual
sessions for five hours per week. These therapy sessions would take place
over the course of a five-month period during which Patient 1 would function
as an “au pair in-training” at the Respondent’s residence.

18.In addition to psychotherapy sessions, the Respondent assigned routine
chores to Patient 1. Many of these tasks amounted to personal chores which
were beneficial to the Respondent including: childcare for the Respondent’s
two children, preparing meals, assisting with homework as well as laundry,
kitchen chores, grocery shopping, organizing the Respondent’s closet, and
animal husbandry.

19. The Respondent indicated during her interview with board staff that many of
the tasks performed by Patient | pursuant to the “au pair in-training” portion
of their agreement, were done in lieu of paying rent while living at the
Respondent’s residence.

20. The Respondent conducted some informal therapy sessions with Patient 1
while riding in the car with the Respondent’s children present. Patient 1

indicates that the Respondent took phone calls from other patients and
engaged in conversations with them in Patient 1’s presence, without
informing the other patients that their conversation was being overheard.

21.The Respondent on at least one occasion took Patient 1 to a professional
presentation conference and openly spoke with other professionals about
Patient 1’s treatment and progress in her presence, without first acquiring
Patient 1’s permission to do so.

22. The Respondent’s treatment and billing records pertaining to Patient 1 fail to
consistently include progress notes, medication management or
documentation of the daily or weekly individual sessions. Those notes that
are present often do not correspond to or support her billing.

23.The Respondent’s conduct, as set forth above, constitutes engaging in
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), for reasons including:

a. Breaching therapeutic boundary by arranging to have Patient 1 live at
the Respondent’s residence and interact with the Respondent’s
children acting as an au pair in-training.

b. Breaching therapeutic boundary by having Patient 1 perform
household chores as well as caring for the Respondent’s farm animals.

c. Breaching therapeutic boundary by forming a business relationship
with Patient 1, in which Patient 1 performed personal and farm chores

in lieu of paying room and board to the Respondent.
24.The Respondent fails to keep adequate medical records with respect to

Patient 1, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), for reasons including:

a. Failing to consistently document progress notes, medication
management and daily or weekly individual session notes; and

b. Failing to maintain records that correspond to and support her billing.
PATIENT 2

25. Patient 2, a male born in the 2000’s, sought treatment from the Respondent
beginning in or around December 2015 after referral from another
psychiatrist. The Respondent treated Patient 2 for approximately eighteen
months. Patient 2 had a history of behavioral problems including suicide
attempts. The Respondent evaluated Patient 2 and diagnosed him with
FASD, ADHD*, and ASD*.

26. The Respondent’s treatment of Patient 2 consisted of regular sessions of
outpatient psychotherapy approximately every other week comprising both
individual and family sessions. Patient 2 made several visits to the
Respondent’s therapeutic animal farm, and was treated with various
medications as deemed appropriate.

27.A review of the Respondent’s recordkeeping with respect to Patient 2

revealed failure to maintain consistent documentation of progress notes and

5 Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) according to the DSM-Sis a brain disorder marked by a
persistent pattern of inattention and/or hyperactivity-impulsivity that interferes with functioning or development.

© Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder that affects communication and behavior according
to the DSM-5.
medication management. The progress notes that the Respondent did keep
failed to include mental status examinations and specific treatment plans. The
progress notes also fail to list any diagnoses.

28. The Respondent also failed to adequately document support for her billing.
The Respondent’s clinical documentation failed to correspond to the billing
sheets.

29.The Respondent fails to keep adequate medical records with respect to
Patient 2, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), for failing to maintain

consistent documentation of progress notes and medication management.
PATIENT 4

30. Patient 4, a female born in the 1970’s, presented to the Respondent for
treatment on or about January 10, 2017, with complaints of depression and
anxiety as a result of many life stressors. The Respondent continued to see
Patient 4 through approximately April 21, 2017. The Respondent diagnosed
Patient 4 with Generalized Anxiety Disorder, Acute Stress Disorder, and
Bipolar II Disorder.

3

me

.The Respondent’s records for Patient 4 included psychiatric evaluation,
initial treatment plan and maintenance phase of treatment. However, the
Respondent failed to consistently document follow-up clinical notes for

individual sessions. The notes the Respondent did document failed to include
mental status examinations and treating diagnoses to support billing complex
medication management.

32.The Respondent fails to keep adequate medical records with respect to
Patient 4, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), for failing to

consistently document follow-up clinical notes for individual sessions.
PATIENT 5

33.Patient 5, a female born in the 1990’s initially sought the Respondent’s
services on or about April 10, 2012, for ADHD, depression and anxiety.

34.The Respondent diagnosed Patient 5 with partial FASD, mild intellectual
disability, and ND-PAE.

35. Patient 5’s treatment plan included visits approximately three times per year
for supportive psychotherapy, and medication management. Patient 5 also
received treatment from another psychotherapist/family therapist for
treatment of anxiety and depression related issues.

36. A review of Patient 5’s record revealed that the Respondent failed to keep
adequate follow-up notes that corresponded with billing entries and that
included mental status examinations and detailed medication entries.

37.The Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records with respect to
Patient 5, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40), for failing to keep
adequate follow-up notes that corresponded with billing entries and that

included mental status examinations and detailed medication entries.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board
concludes as a matter of law that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), and of failing to keep
adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer review, in violation of Health

Oce. § 14-404(a)(40).

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel

B, hereby
ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is
SUSPENDED for 60 DAYS. The Suspension goes into effect 30 DAYS after the
Consent Order effective date.

(a) During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(1) practice medicine;
(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold
himself or herself out to the public as a current provider of medical

services;

10
