Robert Schnitzlein, M.D.

Date: _ 05/03/2027

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians -
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Robert Schnitzlein, M.D.
License Number: D62487
Case Number: 7722-0045

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D62487, effective immediately. |
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice medicine, with or
without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board summarily suspended my license to practice
medicine on January 14, 2020 based on concerns about my ability to practice safely. On
February 5, 2020, Panel B charged me with violating Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and
(ii) and with violating the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations, COMAR 10.32.17. I
resolved these disciplinary charges through a Consent Order with Panel B, dated May 20,
2020, that terminated the summary suspension, suspended my license for a minimum of
one (1) year, reprimanded me, and required that I comply with certain terms and
conditions during the suspension. A copy of the Consent Order is attached and
incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

On November 19, 2021, the Board issued an Order On Petition to Terminate
Suspension of Medical License that denied my petition to terminate the suspension
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Robert Schnitzlein, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

imposed by the May 20, 2020, extended the suspension for a minimum of one (1) year,
and required that I comply with certain terms and conditions. A copy of the Order On
Petition to Terminate Suspension of Medical License is attached and incorporated herein
as Attachment 2.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I am no longer able to comply with the requirements of my suspension
due to a medical condition that prevents me from being able to practice medicine at this
time. I acknowledge that the Consent Order and Order On Petition to Terminate
Suspension of Medical License remain and will continue to be valid Final Orders of the
Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to
comply with the conditions of either Order as long as I do not have or possess an active
medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
one point, the Respondent asked ‘the Patient to delete the text messages that they had sent each
other, In another exchange of messages, the Patient wrote that “swimming and a meal” were not
necessary every time they met in person, and that “Low key Late night [sic] sleeping/snuggling is
just fine too.” The Respondent replied, “I have the same assumptions.” The Patient and the
Respondent later exchanged messages setting up times for “a warm bath” and “another evening
bath” together. The Patient last wrote to the Respondent on or about May 13, 2019, The
Respondent wrote “Hi” to the Patient on or about May 20, 2019, but the Patient did not respond.
D. Interview of the Patient

15. __ As part of its investigation, Board staff interviewed the Patient under oath on or
about August 19, 2019.

16, During the interview, the Patient explained that the Respondent was her treating
psychiatrist while she was admitted to the Hospital. The Patient said that, at the time, she felt
“lucky” to have the Respondent as her psychiatrist because, in her view, he “alluded to [the Patient]
as being sort of a special patient.” The Respondent offered to exchange personal cell phone
numbers just before she was discharged from the Hospital so that the Patient could update him on
her status. The Patient agreed because she thought this provided her “a beeline to a doctor who’s
been there for me.”

17, The Patient explained that she first sent a message to the Respondent a few days
after being discharged from the Hospital. She said that the two communicated by text message
every few days. Eventually, according to the Patient, the Respondent asked to see the Patient in
person at the Hospital.

18. The Patient described the first in-person meeting with the Respondent after being
discharged as “a lot about him” and not about the Patient. The Respondent asked to continue that
conversation and suggested a resteurant at a nearby hotel, The Patient agreed, “thinking it would

be nice to have a meal [and] a nice conversation[.]” The Patient learned that the Respondent lived

7
 

at that hotel during the week. Afterwards, the Respondent invited the Patient to return to the hotel
on a different day “and enjoy the amenities[.]”

19, The Patient said that she returned to the hotel and initially went swimming in the
hotel poo! with the Respondent, but he “continually cajoled me up to his room.” She explained
that there were “no boundaries” between them, The Patient said that she and the Respondent first
kissed in the hotel whirlpool, and “that’s all it was... kissing in the hot tub until his bedroom.”
She explained that by the third time she met the Respondent at the hotel, she went.to his room,
During one encounter in the Respondent’s room, he suggested that they should “get naked and just
see what happens.” ‘The Patient agreed. She said that she and the Respondent undressed
completely and got into his bed together and engaged in sexual activity.

20, The Patient said that over the next several weeks, she and the Respondent “took
two baths together” and engaged in various sexual activities in his hotel room,
E. The August 26, 2019 Voicemails

21. On or about August 27, 2019, the Patient told the Board that the Respondent had
recently called her from a blocked number and left a series of voicemails. The Board obtained
recordings of six voicemails that the Respondent left for the Patient on or about August 26, 2019,
between approximately 11:29 a.m. and 11:46 a.m.

22. The voicemail recordings included the following information:

a. At approximately 11:29 am., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient
saying, among other things, “I want to be totally responsible ... I deeply,
deeply care. I know you do. And I-—I know I was weak and in a bad place

myself, but I wasn’t— I wasn’t looking to hurt you at all, ever, And I still do;
still care a lot. More than care. And I can’t deny that....”

b, At approximately 11:32 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient
saying, among other things, “This is a— was a novel, life-changing experience
that I don’t want to remember in a different way. I want to find a solution, a
creative solution, between you and T in a way that works for both of us and
not have it forced upon us through insurance or legal or destroying the option
of me working again. .. We can do this if you give us a chance ... Help,
Please help us... .”

c,  Atapproximately 11:35 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient
saying, among other things, “I am wanting to connect with you because I need
to.., And I wanted to continue to talk to you. And on a deep level, I miss
you, and I have for a long time.”

d. At approximately 11:37 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient
saying, among other things, “Maybe I’m crazy, but that’s what feelings are
about. I know I was vulnerable, too, and that’s my fault. And I take
responsibility for that and do whatever I need to do to get stronger... ] am
responsible for my actions in every sense of the word. And I want to make it
right with you. Please, please... .”

e. At approximately 11:42 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient
saying, among other things, “Hey, I’m not the enemy. But if you go this route
I won’t be able to see or talk to you again, And I can’t deal with that . . . [If]
there’s any healing to be had, it’s going to be between us. And I’m totally
willing to do that, All job aside, all career aside, all everything aside .. . So
I —1 want to see you really bad... Help me help you and help us . . . Please
don’t beat ~ beat us up.”

f, | At approximately 11:46 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient

, saying, among other things, “Sorry to leave all these voicemails . . . I’m really
hoping that I get a chance to talk to you. No matter what... If there’s some
things that you have to do, I want to understand ... I want to understand
about what I don’t know. Thanks.”

23. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained phone records for the Patient and
the Respondent. These records show that on or about August 26, 2019, the Respondent called the
Patient approximately nine times within 20 minutes and used “Calling Number Identity
Restriction” so that the Patient could not see the number that was calling her.

F. The Respondent’s Written Responses

24, On or about September 6, 2019, the Board notified the Respondent about the
complaint against him and the Board’s ongoing investigation. The Board requested that the
Respondent provided a written response and issued a subpoena to the Respondent for all records

of the Patient that he had in his possession.
25, On or about September 17, 2019, the Board received a handwritten “Statement”
from the Respondent on lined paper as well as five pages of handwritten notes on lined paper that
the Respondent claimed were the records he maintained for the Patient.

26. In his “Statement,” the Respondent wrote, among other things, “How was it that I
have not been able to successfully complete an outpatient therapy task with [the Patient] ‘Has been
a toothpick in my eye,’ since it happened. I knew how to do it... but I could not execute.” The
rest of his Statement did not directly address the complaint, but discussed the Respondent’s
stressors and desire to “rebuild [his] integrity[.]”

27, On or about November 20, 2019, the Respondent, through his attorney, provided a
supplemental written response in which he said that he, among other things, “categorically denies
the allegation that he a sexual relationship with [the Patient].” The Respondent “reluctantly agreed
to let [the Patient] check in with him once a week, until she found a therapist and medication
provider in the community .. .” (but see | 14d, supra.). The Respondent also expressed that he
“now believes that he was manipulated by [the Patient] into a compromising situation which he
did not sufficiently recognize at the time.” He admitted, however, that “by the fourth session, ina
mis-guided attempt to build trust, [the Respondent] did engage in what he acknowledges was
inappropriate contact with the patient. While they did not engage in sexual intercourse, they did
remove most of their clothes. As soon as [the Respondent] realized what he had been led into, he
ended the session and did not see the patient again, nor respond to her attempts to contact him”
(but see 4 14 and 21-22, supra.).

G. Interview of the Respondent

28. As part of its investigation, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath on
or about November 25, 2019. The Respondent’s attorney was present.

29. During the interview, the following exchange occurred when Board staff asked the

Respondent about his relationship with the Patient:

10

 
 

[Board Staff]: Can you just describe in detail the nature of your
relationship with her?

[The Respondent]:. Ican’t. I don’t remember.

[Board Staff]: _ What don’t you remember? .. .

[The Respondent]: Anything.

[Board Staff]: So you don’t remember treating her as a patient?

[The Respondent]: Not to the level of certainty .. . that would allow me
to say it’s a fact.

[Board Staff]: So these notes... that you provided to the Board in
writing, were those notes that you recalled or are
those contemporaneous notes from when you were
treating her?

[The Respondent}: Not sure. | think they’re contemporaneous, but my
. memory is wiped.

30. The Respondent repeatedly said during the interview that he could not recall details
about his treatment or personal contact with the Patient after she was discharged. When shown
copies of specific text messages, including an exchange of heart emojis and references to baths,
the Respondent answered, “Good question; don’t know.” When asked to discuss any intimate
contact with the Patient, the Respondent answered, “I can’t because it’s wiped from my memory.”
He later described his memory loss about his relationship with the Patient as follows: “I can’t see
ot feel or remember the experience, but I’m left with these symptoms that point to an experience
and I can’t say what the experience is.”

31, When asked about exchanging text messages that may have had sexual innuendos,
the Respondent said that “anything’s open game in. therapy, you could talk about anything, that is
the safety about therapy, is that’s a safe place to discuss anything.” He said that he would have

sent such messages to the Patient for “her therapy.”

11
 

32, The Respondent acknowledged calling the Patient in August 2019 and leaving

voicemails, but he could not recall what he said.

. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board concludes as a
matter of law that the Respondent is guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(@)(3)(i) and (ii); and that the Respondent engaged

‘in sexual misconduct, in violation of COMAR 10.32.17,03.

ORDER
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, on the affirmative vote of
a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel B, hereby:
ORDERED that Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED for a minimum period of ONE YEAR.‘ During the suspension period, the

Respondent shall not:

(1) practice medicine;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the
public as a current provider of medical services;

(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board. or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(5) dispense medications; or

(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is further

‘Tf the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any
conditions will be tolled.

12

 
ORDERED that the Respondent shall establish and implement a procedure by which the
Respondent’s patients may obtain their medical records without undue burden and notify all
patients of that procedure; and it is further

ORDERED that the order of summary suspension of the Respondent’s license, issued by

   

- Panel B, on January 14, 2020, and reaffirmed on January 30, 2020, is terminated as moot, and it is
further
ORDERED that the Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial
consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,’
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation
of this Consent Order;

(e) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by
the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make
verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose
relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order. The Respondent
shall not withdraw his/her release/consent.;

(f) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP
to exchange with (ie., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol evaluation and treatment records, The Respondent shall not withdraw his/her
release/consent; and it is further

13
 

ORDERED that within SEX (6) MONTHS, the Respondent is required to take and
successfully complete a course in professional ethics that addresses boundary issues. The
following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the

disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that the

Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(c) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits

required for license renewal;

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further

ORDERED that, within one year, the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of $15,000.
The Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to the
Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297.
The Board will not renew or reinstate the Respondent’s license if the Respondent fails to
timely pay the fine to the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the minimum period of suspension has passed, if MPRP finds
and notifies the Board that the Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine, the
Respondent may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of
the Respondent's license. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel
to discuss his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an
order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it
deems appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation

and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines

that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be

14

 
 

continued through an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any
additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate, The suspension will not be terminated until
the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of
medicine and the order terminating suspension shall include, if necessary, the conditions necessary
for the Respondent’s safe return to the practice of medicine; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the
Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to

one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and

it is further

15

 
ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent Order is
signed by the Executive Director of the Board, The Executive Director signs the Consent Order
on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the sanction in this Consent Order; and it is
further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ, §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

cfealenee Signature on File

Date Christine A. F Farrelly! Exdcutive Direcy6y
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT

I, Robert Schnitzlein, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

T assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md,
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seg.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

16
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Robert Schnitzlein, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Signature on File

—

Robert. Schnitzlein, Mx.

NOTARY

STATE OF Delaware
CITY/COUNTY OF Sussey

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 26 day of Het L | , 2022 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Robert Schnitzlein,
M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Letter of Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

otary Public =

>
My commission expires: Gl-45- 2013 = i een ine

“Anew

QV
¥
on
bs
I
ay
£0,
Be
4,
%, ",

OF pe >

ACCEPTANCE x

%,
",
“HWW

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 3 to day of M , 2022, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept Robert Schnitzlein’s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of his license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrel y, (ecu ive Directo)
Maryland Board of Physteans
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order and Consent set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

Signature on File

Ney % 2020
a
Date Robert Schnitzlein, M.D.

 

NOTARY
STATE OF: wd
CITY/COUNTY OF:
L HEREBY CERTIFY that on this OD day of M , 2020,

 

before me, a Notary Public of the State and City/County aforesaid, appeared Robert
Schnitzlein, M.D, and made oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order was

his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

wing
BRO Ny “",
; sore 4,

pay 7

ty
‘4,
%
we

Ny
iy!

 

O Public

My commission expires: | \\ au| Q0AS

Wea,
DAs,
~ “Oy

tana

c
&
7)
a  S
pniees
“ny MD

%,

al uw
SN

eee
A, s
HH OPO

“

%

»
=

17
Attachment 2
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ROBERT SCHNITZLEIN, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D62487 * Case Number: 7720-0120
* * * * * x * * * * * *

ORDER ON PETITION TO TERMINATE SUSPENSION OF MEDICAL LICENSE

 

I. INTRODUCTION

Robert Schnitzlein, M.D. was originally licensed to practice as a physician in Maryland in
2004, has practiced as a psychiatrist, and worked as a locum tenens physician at a Maryland
hospital in 2019. On May 20, 2020, Dr. Schnitzlein and Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B’’) of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board’”’) entered into a Consent Order. Under the terms
of the Consent Order, Panel B suspended Dr. Schnitzlein’s Maryland medical license for a
minimum period of one year and referred him to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(“MPRP”). On May 20, 2021, Dr. Schnitzlein filed a petition to terminate the suspension. On
August 25, 2021, he appeared before Panel B for consideration of his petition. Panel B reviewed
Dr. Schnitzlein’s file and heard oral presentations from Dr. Schnitzlein, his counsel, and the
administrative prosecutor for the State.

Il. BACKGROUND AND DISCIPLINARY HISTORY

 

Summary Suspension January 14, 2020

Panel B summarily suspended Dr. Schnitzlein’s medical license on January 14, 2020 after
an investigation revealed that he engaged in a sexual relationship with a female patient soon after
her discharge from a hospital where he had been her treating psychiatrist during her involuntary
admission for serious mental health issues. The Board began that investigation in June, 2019, based

ona complaint from a psychologist stating that a female patient of hers had discussed an intimate

1

 
relationship between the patient and Dr. Schnitzlein after she was discharged from the hospital on °

January 18, 2019. In the complaint, the psychologist described text messages she reviewed
between the patient and Dr. Schnitzlein, some of which discussed meeting at a nearby hotel where
Dr. Schnitzlein was staying. The patient told the psychologist that she met Dr. Schnitzlein at the
hotel for “treatment, swimming, conversation, and sex.”

In July, 2019, the Board received a complaint from the patient who alleged having a
personal relationship with Dr. Schnitzlein after he had treated her at the hospital. The patient said
that Dr. Schnitzlein suggested that they exchange personal cell phone numbers so they could
communicate after her discharge, and described her various encounters with him at his hotel where
they swam in the hotel pool, kissed in an outside whirlpool, and engaged in multiple sex acts in
his hotel room. The patient explained that as she recovered, she “understood the gravity of [his]
behavior,” and began to have negative flashbacks to her encounters with Dr. Schnitzlein which
prompted her discussion of their relationship with her psychologist.

In addition to reviewing the complaints from the psychologist and the patient, the Board’s
investigation included obtaining text messages between the patient and Dr. Schnitzlein, the
patient’s medical records from the hospital, voicemails left for the patient from Dr. Schnitzlein in
August, 2019, written responses from Dr. Schnitzlein to the Board, and interviews of the
psychologist, the patient, and Dr. Schnitzlein.

Text Messages

The text messages between Dr. Schnitzlein and the patient from January 23, 2019 to about

May 20, 2019 included heart emojis and plans to meet in-person for a swim at the hotel where Dr.

Schnitzlein was staying and setting up times for ‘a warm bath” and “another evening bath”
together. At one point, Dr. Schnitzlein asked the patient to delete the text messages they had sent
each other.
Psychologist and Patient Interviews

At a sworn interview on July 12, 2019, the psychologist stated that she began treating the
patient following her discharge from the hospital and observed the patient was “quite distressed”
on June 7, 2019. The patient revealed that she had been involved in an intimate relationship with
Dr. Schnitzlein, expressed guilt for not resisting the relationship and questioned whether she
should blame herself. According to the psychologist, the patient was “incredibly vulnerable.” At
the patient’s interview on August 19, 2019, she told Board staff that Dr. Schnitzlein was her
treating psychiatrist at the hospital, and he offered to exchange personal cell phone numbers just
before her discharge so that she could update him on her status. They exchanged text messages for
a few weeks before he invited her to his hotel “‘to enjoy the amenities.” She described meeting Dr.
Schnitzlein at the hotel [at his invitation], swimming in the hotel pool, going to his room, and
engaging in various sexual activities over several weeks.
Voicemails from Dr. Schnitzlein to the patient

The Board obtained recordings of a series of voicemails left by Dr. Schnitzlein for the
patient on August 26, 2019, which revealed that he called the patient six times between 1] 1:29 a.m.
and 11:46 a.m. Among other things, Dr. Schnitzlein told the patient that he deeply cared and missed
her, that he was “responsible,” that he felt this was “a novel, life-changing experience,” and wished
for “a creative solution,” versus having one “forced upon us through legal or insurance” avenues.
He also stated to the patient that “if you go this route, | won’t be able to see or talk to you again.

And I can’t deal with that...”

 

!

 
Written Responses from Dr. Schnitzlein

On September 6, 2019, the Board notified Dr. Schnitzlein about the complaint and ongoing
investigation. The Board requested a written response and issued a subpoena for the patient’s
records. On September 17, 2019, the Board received a handwritten “Statement” from Dr.
Schnitzlein stating that it “Has been a toothpick in my eye” that he “had not been able to
successfully complete an outpatient therapy task with [the patient].” He said he knew how to do it
but he “could not execute.” He did not directly address the complaint but discussed his stressors
and desire to “rebuild [his] integrity.” He enclosed five pages of handwritten notes that he claimed
were the records he maintained for the patient.

On November 20, 2019, Dr. Schnitzlein provided a supplemental written response to the
complaint including statements that: he “categorically denies the allegation that he had a sexual
relationship with [the patient]”; he “reluctantly agreed to let [the patient] check in with him once
a week until she found a therapist and medication provider in the community .. .”; he “now
believes that he was manipulated by [the patient] into a compromising situation which [he] did not
sufficiently recognize at the time.” Dr. Schnitzlein also admitted that ‘‘by the fourth session, in a
mis-guided attempt to build trust, [he] did engage in what he acknowledges was inappropriate
contact with the patient. While they did not engage in sexual intercourse, they did remove most of
their clothes. As soon as [he] realized what he had been led into, [he] ended the session and did
not see the patient again, nor respond to her attempts to contact him. . .”

Interview of Dr. Schnitzlein

The Board interviewed Dr. Schnitzlein under oath on November 25, 2019 in the presence

of his attorney. When asked to describe the nature of his relationship with the patient, Dr.

Schnitzlein said he did not remember anything, and did not remember treating her as a patient “to

 
 

the level of certainty... that would allow [him] to say it’s a fact.” When asked about the written
notes he provided in response to the Board’s subpoena, he said he wasn’t sure and that “[his]
memory is wiped.” According to Dr. Schnitzlein, he could not recall details about his treatment or
personal contact with the patient after her discharge and did not remember the content of his text
messages with her. When shown copies of the specific text messages, including heart emojis and
references to baths, he stated: “Good question; don’t know.” In response to a question about any
intimate contact with the patient, he answered: “I can’t because its wiped from my memory.” When
questioned about text messages that may have had sexual innuendo, Dr. Schnitzlein said that he
would have sent such messages to the patient for “her therapy.” He stated that he was trying to
understand what happened but had “trauma symptoms” of “dissociation” and “memory loss.” He
admitted calling the patient in August 2019 and leaving her voicemails but could not recall what
he said.
Summary Suspension January 14, 2020

On January 14, 2020, Panel B summarily suspended Dr. Schnitzlein’s medical license. Dr.
Schnitzlein did not challenge the summary suspension.
Consent Order May 20, 2020

On February 5, 2020, Panel B charged Dr. Schnitzlein with immoral and unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i)
and (ii), and the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations. COMAR 10.32.17, On May 20, 2020, Dr.
Schnitzlein entered into a Consent Order to resolve the charges. Panel B concluded that Dr.
Schnitzlein was guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine and that
he had engaged in sexual misconduct, in violation of COMAR 10.32.17.03. Panel B suspended

Dr. Schnitzlein’s medical license for a minimum period of one year, required him to take and

 
successfully complete a professional ethics course, referred him to MPRP for enrollment and
participation in the rehabilitation program, and imposed a $15,000 civil fine.

The Consent Order also provided that upon submission of a written petition to terminate
his suspension, and Panel B’s determination that it was safe for Dr. Schnitzlein to return to the
practice of medicine, Panel B would terminate the suspension and impose any terms and conditions
deemed appropriate by the Panel on his return to practice. In the event that the Panel determined
it was not safe for Dr. Schnitzlein to return to the practice of medicine, the Consent Order provided
that the suspension would be continued with the imposition of any additional terms and conditions
it deemed appropriate. The Consent Order further provided that the suspension would not be
terminated until the Panel determined it was safe for Dr. Schnitzlein to return to the practice of
medicine.

PETITION FOR TERMINATION OF SUSPENSION

On May 20, 2021, Dr. Schnitzlein submitted a written petition to terminate his suspension
stating that he had successfully completed the requirements of the Consent Order, Panel B
reviewed Dr. Schnitzlein’s petition, the multi-phase forensic assessments from the professional
coaching and educational program to which MPRP had referred Dr. Schnitzlein, an independent
medical evaluation report, a letter from MPRP on June 10, 2021 endorsing Dr. Schnitzlein’s return
to the practice of medicine under certain conditions, a recommendation of the Administrative
Prosecutor dated July 30, 2021, a response from Dr. Schnitzlein’s attorney to that recommendation

dated August 3, 2021, and a letter from Dr. Schnitzlein also dated August 3, 2021.

eigen
CONSIDERATION OF PETITION
A. Multi-Phase Forensic Assessments

Based on MPRP’s referral of Dr. Schnitzlein to a professional coaching and educational
program, Dr. Schnitzlein participated in coaching encounters, completed various phases of the
program via a telemedicine platform beginning in September, 2020, and was scheduled for a final
phase on October 6-8, 2021. A fitness to practice evaluation dated October 1, 2020 did not find
that Dr, Schnitzlein had any memory or cognitive deficits but found that he distanced himself from
his misconduct and tried to “mitigate his culpability.” The program’s evaluating team concluded
that he was unsafe to practice medicine unless he received treatment for a health condition. A
Summary Report included observations that: Dr. Schnitzlein lacked psychic integration and the
perceptual insight expected of a psychiatrist and that health factors that may have predisposed him
to engage in such unprofessional, unethical conduct did not excuse his conduct. Reports from
subsequent evaluations in 2020 and 2021 concluded that a severe health condition! was the likely
cause of Dr. Schnitzlein’s unprofessional conduct and specified the need for Dr. Schnitzlein to
engage in ongoing treatment for his condition, and develop skills to remain accountable to the
professional-ethical role of being a physician.

In terms of a return to practice, the evaluating team recommended any of the following: a
male only practice - in-person and telepsychiatry, a prison or jail setting with chaperone, a clinic
setting with a workplace oversight monitor and polygraphs every 3-6 months, or practice with a

psychiatric nurse practitioner and chaperone for female patients and polygraphs every 3-6 months.

' The details of the health condition are not disclosed in this document.

7
B. Independent Evaluation Report
An independent evaluation on November 10, 2020 noted that “it was striking” that [Dr.
Schnitzlein] “was not self-critical” and “is detached in his view” of his boundary violations, which
he attributed to poor memory and an inability to understand how he was feeling. Of major concern
was Dr. Schnitzlein’s statement that he still did not have a “scenario” that explained his behavior
and had no credible understanding of what occurred and why. The evaluation report also noted a
possible injury from a prior automobile accident, and a health condition with a high risk for
recurrence. Recommendations included further workup, and weekly psychotherapy geared to
understanding the reasons for his violations.
C. MPRP Letter
In a letter dated June 10, 2021, MPRP endorsed Dr. Schnitzlein’s return to practice with
terms and conditions that included continuing participation in MPRP and an approved workplace
monitor, continuing treatment with a psychologist, clinical polygraphs every 6 months, limiting
his clinical practice to male patients, and having a chaperone if he practices in prison or
correctional facilities.
D. Administrative Prosecutor Letter
A letter from the Administrative Prosecutor on July 30, 2021 recommended denial of Dr.
Schnitzlein’s petition and continuance of his suspension. The letter summarized the various reports
from the coaching program and expressed reservations about the conclusions drawn from Dr.
Schnitzlein’s own accounts and his continued reliance on health conditions to justify his actions.
The letter also noted the lack of any appropriate further testing as recommended by the independent

evaluator and concerns that Dr. Schnitzlein’s resumption of the practice of medicine would pose

bo RRNA oo Sea
Attachment 1
too substantial a risk to the public health, safety, and welfare unless his possible underlying health
issues were properly addressed.
E. Responses from Dr. Schnitzlein and his Attorney

The Board received written responses from Dr. Schnitzlein and his attorney on August 3,
2021. The attorney disputed the Administrative Prosecutor’s remarks that Dr. Schnitzlein did not
take responsibility for his actions and stated that the panel members should rely on opinions of
those who have worked with and provided therapy to Dr. Schnitzlein. In his response, Dr.
Schnitzlein stated that he is solely responsible for his actions, understands the potential harm that
could come of them, and that his recovery was a priority for him going forward. During the meeting
with the disciplinary panel on August 26, 2021, when asked about his memory of events, Dr.
Schnitzlein did not explain or indicate that he remembered any specific details.

The critical questions before the disciplinary panel are Dr. Schnitzlein’s understanding of
the nature and causes of the serious boundary violations that led to the summary suspension of his
medical license, and whether the panel is confident that repeat offenses can be ruled out in the
future. Based on Dr. Schnitzlein’s presentation, the panel is not persuaded that he appreciates or
understands the gravity of his violations, or that he has integrated his professional and ethical
responsibilities as a physician with health conditions that may create risks for his future practice.
Considering his answers, the panel concludes that Dr. Schnitzlein requires further diagnostic
testing and individualized treatment for conditions that remain significantly unresolved. Based on
its expertise, the panel is not reassured that he has acquired any meaningful insight into the possible
motivations for his behavior, or that his rehabilitation process has been sufficiently comprehensive
to ensure that he will safely practice medicine. Nor does the panel have confidence that the public

would be protected if Dr. Schnitzlein is allowed to resume the practice of medicine at this time.
Panel B concludes that it is not safe for Dr. Schnitzlein to return to the practice of medicine at this
time and therefore the suspension of his medical license will not be terminated under this order,
ORDER

It is, by Disciplinary Panel B, hereby:

 

ORDERED that the Petition for Termination of Suspension of the Medical License of
Robert Schnitzlein, M.D. is DENIED; and it is further
ORDERED that the Suspension of Dr. Schnitzlein’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland is continued for a minimum of ONE (1) YEAR? from the date of this Order; and until
Dr. Schnitzlein has satisfactorily complied with the following terms and conditions:
1. Dr, Schnitzlein shall not:
(a) Practice medicine;

(b) Take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the
public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) Authorize, allow, or condone the use of Dr Schnitzlein’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) Function as a peer reviewer for the board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(e) Dispense medications;

(f) Perform any other act that requires an active medical license.
2. Dr. Schnitzlein shall remain enrolled in MPRP as follows:

(a) Dr. Schnitzlein shall continue his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP or be entered into an amended
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan as
determined by MPRP;

2 If Dr. Schnitzlein’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions
will be tolled.

10
(b) Dr. Schnitzlein shall comply with a referral for a comprehensive, in-person
neuropsychological evaluation;

(c) Dr. Schnitzlein shall comply with a referral for a psychiatric evaluation and
individual treatment by a board-certified, Maryland-licensed psychiatrist;

(d) Dr. Schnitzlein shall continue in weekly psychotherapy with the treating
psychiatrist during the period of suspension and follow all treatment
recommendations by the treating psychiatrist;

(e) Dr. Schnitzlein shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan entered into with MPRP, and he shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(f) Dr. Schnitzlein shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order. A
failure to, or withdrawal of consent, is a violation of this Order;

(g) Dr. Schnitzlein shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Schnitzlein’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning Dr. Schnitzlein and to ensure that MPRP
is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Schnitzlein, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol treatment records. A failure to, or
withdrawal of consent, is a violation of this Order; and

(h) Dr. Schnitzlein’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions,
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s), constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is
further
ORDERED that Dr. Schnitzlein shall not apply for early termination of suspension, and it
is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is

further

11

_sogsaes mae a
:

ORDERED that, after a minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR, and after Dr. Schnitzlein
has complied with all terms and conditions of suspension, and upon a report from MPRP that Dr.
Schnitzlein has complied with all of the requisite referrals and treatment, Dr. Schnitzlein may
submit a written petition to the Board requesting termination of suspension. Dr. Schnitzlein may
be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. After
consideration of the petition, and if the disciplinary panel determines that is safe for Dr. Schnitzlein
to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it deems
appropriate on Dr. Schnitzlein’s return to the practice of medicine, including, but not limited to,
probation and/or continuation of Dr. Schnitzlein’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel
determines that it is not safe for Dr. Schnitzlein to return to practice of medicine, the suspension
shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by
the disciplinary pariel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and conditions
it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Schnitzlein allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Dr. Schnitzlein shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If
the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall
be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and, if the disciplinary panel determines there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Schnitzlein shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that Dr.

Schnitzlein has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Order, the disciplinary panel

12
may reprimand Dr. Schnitzlein, place Dr. Schnitzlein on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke Dr. Schnitzlein’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine upon Dr. Schnitzlein; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Schnitzlein is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed in this
order begins when this Order goes into effect. This Order goes into effect upon the signature of
the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order on Petition to Terminate Suspension of Medical License is a
public document. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-

333(b)(6).

Signature on File

U/19/202 |
Dat Christine A, Farrelly, Exe utive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians (]

13
IN THE MATTER OF. * BEFORE THE

ROBERT SCHNITZLEIN, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

 

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D62487 * Case Number: 2219-0202B
* * * * * * * * * * *- * *
CONSENT ORDER

On February 5, 2020, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Robert Schnitzlein, M.D. (the “Respondent”) with
violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§
14-101 e¢ seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.). The Respondent was charged with violating
the following grounds of the Act:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations
— Grounds.

(a) In general, ~ Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this —
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place
any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[.]

~ The pertinent provisions of the Board’s regulations in Md, Code Regs. provide:

10.32.17! Sexual misconduct.

! The Board amended this regulation effective May 20, 2019. These Charges refer to the 2018
version of the regulation, which was in effect at the time of the alleged incidents described in these Charges.
02 Definitions.
B. Terms defined.

(3) “Sexual misconduct” means a health care practitioner’s
behavior toward a patient, former patient, or key third party,
which includes:

(b) Sexual violation[.]
(4) Sexual violation.

(a) “Sexual violation” means health care practitioner-patient
or key third party sex, whether or not initiated by the
patient or key third party, and engaging in any conduct
with a patient or key third party that is sexual or may be
reasonably interpreted as sexual, regardless of whether
the sexual violation occurs inside or outside of a
professional setting.

(b) “Sexual violation” includes, but is not limited to:

(i) Sexual intercourse;

(ii) Oral to genital contact;

(iv) Kissing in a romantic or sexual manner;

(v) Touching the patient’s breasts, genitals, or any
sexualized body part;

(vi) Actively causing the patient or key third party to
touch the health care practitioner’s breasts, genitals,
or any sexualized body part; [and]

(ix) Intentionally exposing the health care practitioner’s
breasts, genitals, or any sexualized body part.

.03 Sexual Misconduct.

A. Individuals licensed or certified under Health Occupations Article,
Titles 14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland, may not engage in
sexual misconduct.
 

B. Health Occupations Article, [§] 14-404(a)(3) .. . Annotated Code of ~
Maryland, includes, but is not limited to, sexual misconduct.

On April 22, 2020, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter, Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT.
Panel B finds the following:
I. BACKGROUND & LICENSING INFORMATION

1. At all relevant times, the Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
on or about December 3, 2004, under License Number D62487. His license has the expiration
date of September 30, 2021.7

2. The Respondent has practiced as a psychiatrist. He is not board certified in any
medical specialty, The Respondent completed his residency training in both adult and adolescent
psychiatry and neurology,

3. _ Between on or about January 7, 2019, to on or about May 17, 2019, the Respondent

worked as a locum tenens physician at a hospital on Maryland’s Eastern Shore (the “Hospital”).?

2 The Respondent’s license was summarily suspended by Panel B on January 14, 2020,
and the summary suspension was reaffirmed on January 30, 2020,

3 To maintain confidentiality, the names of all witnesses, facilities, employees, and patients will not
be used in this document but will be provided to the Respondent on request.

8
 

IL. COMPLAINTS

4, On or about June 10, 2019, the Board received a complaint from a clinical
psychologist (the “Psychologist”) who reported that a patient of hers (the “Patient”) had discussed
an intimate relationship between the Patient and the Respondent, which occurred soon after the
Respondent had ‘treated the Patient at the Hospital for serious mental health issues. In the
complaint, the Psychologist described text messages she reviewed between the Patient and the
Respondent. These messages included some that discussed meeting at a nearby hotel where the
Respondent was staying. The Psychologist said that based on her conversations with the Patient,
the Patient met the Respondent multiple times at the hotel for “treatment, swimming, conversation
and sex.”

5, On or about July 19, 2019, the Board received a complaint from the Patient who
alleged having a personal relationship with the Respondent after he had treated her while she was
admitted to the Hospital, The Patient said that the Respondent suggested that they exchange
personal cell phone numbers so they could communicate after she was discharged. The Patient
described various encounters that she had with the Respondent after she was discharged, including
at the hotel where the Respondent was staying. During these encounters, according to the Patient,
the Respondent and her swam in the hotel pool, kissed in an outside whirlpool, and engaged in
multiple sex acts in the Respondent’s hotel room. The Patient also explained that as she recovered,
she “understood the gravity of [the Respondent’s] behavior.” She explained that she began to have
negative flashbacks to her encounters with the Respondent, which prompted her to discuss with

the Psychologist her relationship with the Respondent.

IIL BOARD INVESTIGATION
6. The Board initiated an investigation into the Respondent upon receiving the

Psychologist’s complaint,
 

A. Interview of the Psychologist

7. On or about July 12, 2019, as part of its investigation, Board staff interviewed the
Psychologist under oath.
8. The Psychologist said that she began treating the Patient after the Patient was

discharged from the Hospital. On or about June 7, 2019, the Psychologist observed that the Patient
was “quite distressed.” The Patient first revealed during that session that she had been involved
in an intimate relationship with the Respondent, her treating psychiatrist while she was in the
Hospital. The Psychologist. confirmed and reiterated the description of the relationship that she
provided in her complaint to the Board.

9. The Psychologist explained that the Patient expressed guilt for not resisting the
relationship with Respondent and questioned whether she should blame herself for the relationship.
The Psychologist described the Patient as “incredibly vulnerable” and “not in a position to make a
decision as to whether this was a good relationship or not.”

10, The Psychologist stated that after the Patient explained her relationship with the
Respondent, the Psychologist attempted to arrange for her patients needing inpatient psychiatric
admissions to go to. facilities other than the Hospital so that they would not be “exposed to [the
Respondent].”

B. Patient Records

11, Onor about July 12, 2019, as part of its investigation, the Board issued subpoenas
for the Patient’s records to both the Psychologist and the Hospital.

12. On or about July 22, 2019, the Board received the Patient’s records from the
Hospital. These records included the following information, among other things:

a. The Patient was involuntarily admitted to the Hospital on or about January
14, 2019, for serious mental health issues.

b. ‘The Respondent was the Patient’s treating physician at the Hospital.
g.

The Respondent documented his evaluation of the Patient in Progress Notes
on four consecutive days, specifically January 15-18, 2019,

On or-about January 18, 2019, the Respondent noted that the Patient “has an
[appointment] on Monday for psychiatric follow-up,” and that she is “not a
danger to self or other and tolerates the current medication and is ready to
continue [follow-up] [mental health] care as an [outpatient].”

The Patient was discharged on or about January 18, 2019.

A “Discharge Summary Note” included an appointment scheduled with the
Psychologist for Monday, January 21, 2019.

The Patient’s records do not include notes for any follow-up treatment with
the Respondent.

13. On or about July 29, 2019, the Board received the Patient’s records from the

Psychologist. These records included the following information, among other things:

a.

b.

The Patient first saw the Psychologist on or about January 21, 2019.

The Patient first appeared anxious, agitated, and angry. However, by April
22, 2019, the Psychologist noted “mental status improved” with no rigidity,
anger, or paranoia.

Notes from June 7, 2019, include the Patient’s description of her relationship
with the Respondent. The Psychologist noted that the Patient had become
anxious and agitated again and noted her progress as “regression.”

‘C. Text Messages

14. . As part of its investigation, the Board obtained text messages between the Patient

and the Respondent that they exchanged from on or about January 23, 2019, to on or about May

20, 2019. The text messages included, among other things, the Patient’s assurance that she would

remain “confidential” to “protect both of our licenses always.” The messages went on to include

references to sadomasochism and the Respondent’s interest in engaging in it, though he told the

Patient he had “not had a partner willing.” On one occasion the Patient and the Respondent

exchanged heart emojis, On or about February 27, 2019, the Patient and the Respondent began

exchanging messages that included plans to meet in person “for a swim,” among other things. At
