 

 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

HAROON I. HAMEED, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D63269 * Case Number: 2221-0004B

* * * * * * * * * k * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B ("Panel B") of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
"Board") hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Haroon I. Hameed, M.D.
(the "Respondent"), License Number D63269, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), having concluded that the public
health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by, and made known to and available to
Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:'

1 The statements about the Respondent's conduct set forth in this document are intended to provide the
Respondent with reasonable notice of the basis for this suspension. They are not intended as, and do
not necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial,
to be offered against the Respondent in connection with this action.

 
1 BACKGROUND
L. At all times relevant, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine

in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice

 

medicine in Maryland on June 3, 2005, under License Number D63269. The

 

Respondent's license is currently active through September 30, 2022.
2. The Respondent is board-certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation. He
currently practices at a health care facility’ (the "Facility") in Queen Anne's
County, Maryland.
Il. THE COMPLAINT
3. On or about June 3, 2020, the Board received an anonymous complaint (the
"Complaint") alleging that the Respondent had performed the wrong surgical
procedure on a patient and had appeared at the Facility for work under the
influence of unknown intoxicants.
III. BOARD INVESTIGATION
4. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent based on the
Complaint, which included the subpoena and review of witness testimony,
human resources documents, and medical records. The results of the Board's
investigation are set forth infra.
Substance Use History

5. The Board obtained information documenting the following:

2 To maintain confidentiality, the names of all witnesses, facilities, employees, and patients will not be
used in this document, but will be provided to the Respondent upon request.

2

cusses
a, On or about March 15, 2011, the Respondent was charged with Driving
While Impaired by Alcohol, for which he later received a Probation Before

Judgment. At the time of the offense, police performed a breathalyzer test

of the Respondent, which revealed a blood alcohol level of 0.11.

   

b. Between December 23, 2015 and May 20, 2020, the Respondent was
prescribed several Controlled Dangerous Substances’ for various ailments
and conditions requiring surgery.

c. Facility staff gave sworn testimony to Board staff stating that on multiple
occasions beginning in 2019, Facility employees reported smelling alcohol
on the Respondent's breath.

d. On or about September 23, 2019, the Respondent was diagnosed with a
medical condition, that can be caused by alcohol use, relating to
inflammation of an organ of the body. The Respondent acknowledged
consuming three alcoholic drinks approximately five days per week for
fifteen years.

e. On or about March 10, 2020, the Respondent stated at an office visit that he
sometimes ingested certain Controlled Dangerous Substances in excess of
the prescribed amount.

f. On or about April 27, 2020, the Respondent visited an emergency room for

shortness of breath and was observed to be "mildly intoxicated" with

3 To maintain confidentiality, the Respondent's medication will not be disclosed in this document,
but will be provided to the Respondent upon request.

3
slurred speech. At that time, he indicated that he drinks six alcoholic
beverages per week.

Wrong Procedure Incident

 

6. On or about August 28, 2019, the Respondent treated a patient who had signed

 

a consent form authorizing a cervical facet block procedure. Prior to the
procedure, Facility staff verbally identified the type of procedure to be
performed in the presence of the Respondent. The Respondent, however,
performed a radiofrequency ablation instead of a cervical facet block, even
though the cervical facet block had been ordered and consented in writing and
verbally identified by Facility staff.

7. Facility staff gave sworn testimony stating that subsequent to the procedure,
the Respondent twice instructed Facility staff to change the procedure on the
patient's consent form without the patient's knowledge or consent after the
wrong procedure had already been performed. The Facility staff refused to
change the patient's consent form, but later observed that alterations were made
to the patient's consent form. During his Board interview, the Respondent
acknowledged that he added "/RFA" indicating radiofrequency ablation to the
patient's consent form after performing the wrong procedure.

February 17, 2020 Incident

8. Facility staff testified under oath that on or about February 17, 2020, the

Respondent arrived to work approximately thirty (30) minutes late. The

Respondent performed a procedure on a patient during which he was observed
 

 

to be repeatedly swaying. Subsequent to the procedure, Facility staff suspected
the Respondent to be impaired, observing that the Respondent had slurred
speech, bloodshot eyes, and the smell of alcohol upon his person. During his
swom testimony, the Respondent acknowledged the possibility that he may
have consumed alcohol the evening prior.

Facility staff ultimately secluded the Respondent in an empty office and
confronted him with their suspicions regarding his impairment. The
Respondent began to cry and stated that he was in so much pain. The
Respondent did not deny intoxication. He replied, "I am tough, I can get
through today. These are just simple little procedures.” Facility staff resisted
the Respondent's assertions that he be allowed to continue to treat patients.
The Respondent stated that he had to work because he needed money. The
Respondent nearly became "argumentative" before eventually acquiescing.
Upon attempting to leave the Facility, the Respondent was "stumbling
everywhere," speaking loudly, giving ‘high fives’ to patients, and almost fell
stepping down off the curb onto the pavement of the parking lot. Facility staff

immediately reported the incident to the human resources staff.

May 5, 2020 Incident

10.

Facility staff testified under oath that on or about May 5, 2020, the Respondent
arrived to work approximately ten to fifteen minutes late with his pants falling
down. The Respondent's hair was uncombed and his eyes were "glassy" and

“heavy." Facility staff observed the Respondent exhibiting slurred speech and

 
 

 

lack of coordination. Facility staff concluded there was something “seriously
wrong" with the Respondent when he could not recognize staff members with
whom he had worked for over six months. Facility staff immediately began
rescheduling patients and reported the Respondent's state to management who
arrived at the Facility approximately an hour and a half later. Upon arriving,
Facility management staff observed the Respondent attempting to light a
cigarette on the wrong end.

Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath. The Respondent admitted
that he ingested a dose of Controlled Dangerous Substances around 9:00 p.m.
the evening of May 4, 2020. The Respondent further explained that he
"probably" consumed one or two alcoholic beverages around 10:00 p.m. or
11:00 p.m. The Respondent lastly stated that he ingested another dose of
Controlled Dangerous Substances around 2:00 a.m. the morning of May 5,
2020 before getting up around 6:30 a.m. and arriving to the Facility around
9:00 am. During his testimony relating to the May 5, 2020 incident, the
Respondent stated, "I was impaired when I got [to the Facility] and I took that
very seriously ... I'm glad I did not see any patients that day[.]"

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B concludes that the public

health, safety, or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to

Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2019 Supp.) and Md.

Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).

 
ORDER

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings and Conclusion of Law, it is, by a
majority of a quorum of Panel B hereby

ORDERED that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Board by Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) and Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(a), the license of
HAROON HAMEED, M.D., License Number D63269, to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland is SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation summary suspension hearing in accordance
with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08E has been scheduled for Wednesday, November 18,
2020 at 1:00 p.m. before Disciplinary Panel B at the Maryland State Board of
Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation summary suspension
hearing held before Panel B, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing,
may request within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within
thirty (30) days of the request before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley,
Maryland 21031; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order for Summary Suspension is an Order of Panel B and,
as such, isa PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and

Md. Code Ann., Gen. Proy. § 4-333(b)(6).

_\Jos|zoz0. Signature on File

Date Christine A. Farrelly \
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
