 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

RASHEED A. ABASSI, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS

License Number D65329 * Case Nos. 2014-0595 & 2014-0743

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

On November 19, 2014, Rasheed A. Abassi, M.D. was charged under the Maryland
Medical Practice Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101—14-702, with unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). The case was forwarded
to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for an evidentiary hearing and a proposed
decision.

On July 21 and 22, 2015, an evidentiary hearing was held before an administrative law
judge (“ALJ”) at OAH. On October 19, 2015, the ALJ issued a proposed decision finding Dr.
Abassi guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. As a sanction, the ALJ
recommended a one-year suspension of Dr. Abassi’s medical license followed by three years of
probation, participation in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program, an ethics course,
and a $30,000 fine.

On February 10, 2016, an exceptions hearing was held before Disciplinary Panel A (the
“Panel”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

FINDINGS OF FACT

The following findings of fact were proven by the preponderance of evidence’:

' Unless otherwise specified in this final decision and order, the Panel adopts the ALI’s proposed
findings of fact and discussion on pages 6-34 of the ALJ’s Proposed Decision, which are
 

Dr. Abassi was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland in 2006 and has
continuously renewed his license. He specializes in internal medicine. During the period at
issue, he practiced as a hospitalist at a Hospital in Maryland (the “Hospital”).

On October 24, 2013, the Hospital’s Medical Executive Committee decided that a
Focused Professional Practice Evaluation (“FPPE”), which would include a chart review, would
be conducted to investigate complaints against Dr. Abassi, which mostly concerned standard of
care concerns, such as a failure to perform evaluations in a timely manner.” One of the members
of the Medical Executive Committee was Physician 1, a surgeon.

On November 21, 2013, after reviewing the FPPE findings, the Hospital’s Medical
Executive Committee recommended the continuation of the FPPE, a further chart review, a
reduced caseload for Dr. Abassi, and other remedial measures.

While the FPPE was being conducted, Dr. Abassi began accessing confidential medical
files through the Hospital’s computerized electronic records system of patients with whom Dr.
Abassi had no involvement and whose records he had no legitimate reason for assessing.
Believing that the FPPE was being used unfairly against him, Dr. Abassi was attempting to find
cases of medical errors by others with which he planned to use to retaliate for the FPPE. One
physician Dr. Abassi targeted was Physician 1.

One of the electronic patient files Dr. Abassi improperly accessed concerned Patient A.
Physician 1 performed surgery on Patient A in 2011, from which Patient A suffered

complications. The complications from the surgery were fully repaired in 2012, and Patient A

 

incorporated by reference into the body of this document. The ALJ’s Proposed Decision is
attached as Exhibit 1.

> The Hospital’s Quality, Safety and Professional Affairs Committee also approved the FPPE.

> Neither the conclusion of law nor the sanction in this final decision and order is based upon
any medical care or conduct that was investigated in the October/November 2013 FPPE.

2
 

2. Dr. Abassi shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested or
required by the Board and MPRP. Dr. Abassi shall sign the release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any and all
MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. Dr. Abassi shall also sign any written
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to exchange information regarding Dr. Abassi with
agents of MPRP (evaluators and treatment providers referred to by MPRP for Dr. Abassi);

3. Prior to the completion of probation,’ Dr. Abassi shall pay a civil fine in the
amount of $30,000 by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board
of Physicians, P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297;

4. Dr. Abassi shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 14-101—14-702, and all laws and regulations governing the practice of medicine
in Maryland;

5. After three years of probation, Dr. Abassi may submit a written petition to the
Board requesting termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation
may be terminated through an order of the Board or Panel A. Dr. Abassi may be required to
appear before the Board or Panel A to discuss his petition for termination of probation. The
Board or Panel A will grant the petition to terminate probation if Dr. Abassi has complied with
all of the probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending complaints related to the
charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Board or Panel A determines, after notice and an opportunity for a
hearing before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings if there is
a genuine dispute as to a material fact or a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel A if

8 Dr. Abassi may pay the fine in total or pay a portion of the fine during the suspension period. In
either event, the fine must be paid in full before to the termination of probation.

11
 

there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, that Dr. Abassi has failed to comply with any
term or condition of the suspension, of probation, or of this order, the Board or Panel A may
reprimand Dr. Abassi, place Dr. Abassi on probation with appropriate terms and conditions,
impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Abassi, or revoke or further suspend Dr. Abassi’s license
to practice medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Abassi is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed in this
order begins when this Final Decision and Order goes into effect. The Final Decision and Order
goes into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel A.

ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a public document pursuant to Md.

Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq.

03/01 /Z20lb
Date Chait Farrelly{ Executilve Director

Maryland State Roed of Physicians

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to § 14-408(a) of the Health Occupations Article, Dr. Abassi has the right to
seek judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review must be
filed within 30 days from the date this Final Decision and Order is mailed. The petition for
judicial review must be made as directed in the Maryland Administrative Procedure Act, Md.

Code Ann., State Goy’t § 10-222, and Maryland Rules 7-201 ef seq.
 

If Dr. Abassi petitions for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served with
the court’s process. In addition, Dr. Abassi should send a copy of his petition for judicial review
to the Board’s counsel, David Wagner, Assistant Attorney General, Office of the Attorney
General, 300 W. Preston Street, Suite 302, Baltimore, Maryland 21201. The administrative
prosecutor is not involved in the circuit court process and does not need to be served or copied

on pleadings filed in circuit court.

13
 
 

MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF * BEFORE LOUIS N. HURWITZ,
PHYSICIANS * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
v. * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE
RASHEED A. ABASSI, M_D., * OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

RESPONDENT * OAH No.: DHMB-MBP-71-15-10140 ©
LICENSE No.: D65329_ * MBP Nos.: 2014-0595 & 2014-0743

* * * * * *& * * * * * * *
A
PROPOSED DECISION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE’
ISSUES

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE -

PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

DISCUSSION
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

On November 19, 2014, a disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(Board or MBP) issued Charges against Rasheed A. Abassi, M.D., (Respondent) for alleged acts
in violation of the Medical Practice Act (the Act). Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101
through 14-507 and 14-601 through 14-608 (2014). Specifically, the Board alleges that the
Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(3) of the Act. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ, § 14-404(a)(3)
(2014). The Board forwarded the charges to the Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation
Division (HOPL), Office of the Attorney General, State of Maryland (State), for prosecution.

On March 30, 2015,’ the matter was transmitted to the Office of Administrative Hearings
(OAH) for a hearing. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 (2014). On May 5, 2015, I

conducted a Prehearing Conference at the OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland. Robert J. Gilbert,

 

! This is the date the OAH received the case.
 

Deputy Counsel, HOPL, Administrative Prosecutor, represented the State, and J obn T.
. Harrington, Esquire, xepresented the Respondent. On May 13, 2015, 1 issued a Prehearing
Conference Report and Scheduling Order.

On July 21 and 22, 2015, I held a hearing on the merits at the OAH, Md. Code Ann.,
Health Oce. § 14-405(a) (2014); Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.02.04. Mr.
Harrington Tepresented the Respondent, who was present. Mr. Gilbert represented the State.

Procedure in this case is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act,.the Rules for Hearings before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the OAH. Md. Code Amn, State Gov’t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2014); Code of
Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.

ISSUES
1. Did the Respondent engage in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, _
in violation of the Act; and, if so,
2. What sanction(s) are appropriate?

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
Exhibits ,

T admitted the following documents into evidence as Joint exhibits:

Joint #1 "Licensing Information, dated March 24, 2014
Joint #2 Application for Renewal of Licensure, dated July 15, 2014
Joint #3 |. Report of Disciplinary Action, ay °:'=
: , Center —_. received January 22,2014
Joint #4 Respondent's response to complaint, dated February 28, 2014, with the

following attached sub-exhibits:

Joint #4-1 Letter dated January 8, 2014 from Dr. [ the Respondent,
re: immediate summary suspension

Joint #4-2 r= Chart, dated June 15, 2012

2
Joint #4-3

Joint #5
Joint #6
Joint #7
Joint #8.
Joint #9

Joint #10
Joint #10-1
Joint #10-2

Joint #10-3

Joint #10-4

Joint #10-S

Joint #10-6

Joint #10-7

Joint #10-8 -

Joint #10-9

Joint #10-10

 

Letters from the Respondent to Dr, dated November 13, 2013
and November 21, 2013

Complaint from Patient A, dated January 25, 2014

Transcribed interview a> dated May 2, 2014
Transcribed interview of Respondent, dated June 12, 2014
Transcribed interview of Louis EQN, dated July 14, 2014
Transcribed interview of Debora aD. dated July 14, 2014

- Report of TD»: Hoc Hearing Committee, dated May 13, 2014,
with attached € d Table of Contents

Medical Staff Code of Professional Conduct, signed by the Respondent,
dated September 29, 2010

Maryland Hospital Credentialing Application signed by the Respondent,
dated April 23, 2008

Notice of Privacy Practices ED 00, Inc., dated Sept. 23, 2013

Excerpts from Medical Staff Bylaws Gp. approved September 19.
2013 . ,

Policy and Procedure
anual ex ‘ocused and Ongoing Professional Practice
Evaluation. (EPPE/OPPE) and Peer Review, revised October 2012

Confidentiality Statements signed by the Respondent, dated July 15, 2010
and May 31, 2013

Policy and Procedure’ Manual excerpt, Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Policy: Notice of Privacy Practices,

. Teview date - January 2011

= Policy and Procedure Manual excerpt, Policy on Security and
afeguarding of Health/Hospital Information Against Loss, Destruction,
Tampering & Unauthorized Access, reviewed August 2012, revised
January 2009

Memorandum from Thoma M.D., Medical Staff President, to
the Medical Executive Committee, dated October 21, 2013 :

Medical Executive Committee Minutes, dated October 2A, 2013

3
Joint #10-11

Joint #10-12

Joint #10-13
Joint #10-14
Joint #10-15

~ Joint #10-16

Joint #10-17
Joint #10-18A-E
Joint #10-19
Joint #10-20

Joint #10-21
Joint #10-22

Joint #10-23
Joint #10-24
Joint #10-25

Joint #10-26

Memo from Kate}

 

Minutes of Quality, Safety and Professional Affairs Committee, Board of
Directors, dated October 24, 2013

Memorandum from Dr IP to Deg dated November 5, 2013
Letter from Dr. qi and Dr. Stephen ip to the
Respondent, dated November 5, 2013 .

Letter from Scott M. -D., Quality Oversight Comumnittee, to Dr.
aul dated November 20, 2013

Minutes of Medical Executive Committee Executive Session, dated
November 21, 2013

Affidavit of Patien dated March 18, 2014.
‘Memorandum from Dr. to Lou Sp January 8,

Audit Trail of access by the Respondent to Patient A’s medical
information, printed on March 10, 2014

Letter from Dr. FY to the Respondent, dated January 8,
2014

 
  
  

Vice President of Quality, Safety &
, dated January 15, 2014

Accreditation, to Ric
Letter from Dr. the Respondent, dated January 21, 2014
Letter from Dr. to the Respondent, dated January 23, 2014

Memorandum from Deborah RN, Physician Quality

      

Coordinator, to Dr January 23, 2014.
Memo to File from qua Medical Staff Office, dated
January 23, 2014

Minutes from Medical Executive Committee Executive Session, dated
January 23, 2014 :

Minutes from Quality, Safety and Professional Affairs Committee, dated
January 24, 2014

? This witness was a patient of @@MMEEMind not of the Respondent. For confidentiality purposes and ease of
redaction, he will be referred to as Patient A throughout the rest of the decision.
4
 

Joint #10-27 Letter from John T. Harrington, Esquire, to Dr. Dr. ED. dated

February 4, 2014
Joint #10-28 Letter from Dr. quam: the Respondent, dated February 28,
2014
_ Joint #10-29 Revised Summary of Access by the Respondent to Unauthorized Accounts

(for the period from November 1, 2013 to J anuary 9, 2014)

_ Joint #10-30 Transcript of April 2, 2014 Fair Hearing of the Respondent, with the
following attachments: Respondent’s Closing Memorandum and Closing
Statement of Medical Executive Committee

Joint #11 Investigation Report, dated October 17, 2014
Joint #12 Charges Under the Maryland Medical Practice Act, dated November 19,
2014

I admitted the following exhibits into evidence on behalf of the State:

State #1 American Medical Association (AMA) Principles of Medical Ethics,
undated

State #2 AMA Opinion 7.025 - Records of Physicians: Access by Non-Treating :

Medical Staff, undated
I admitted the following exhibit into evidence on behalf of the Respondent:

Resp. #1 Respondent’s Curriculum Vitae

Testimony

. The Staté presented the following witnesses:

 

: Cz Patient A’s spouse

Patient A

=a MD., SBBEIP Vice President of Medical Affairs
! Vice President of Information Technology (IT), ae
ospital Center

Deborah R.N., Clinical Systems Analyst, IT Department, ip

  
  
 

3 This witness will be referred to in the balance of this decision as Patient A’s wife.
 

The Respondent testified in his own behalf and presented the following witnesses:*

GE ::~:- ip: patient of the Respondent
PF a patient of thé Respondent.

>. a friend and colleague of the Respondent
aap. a gastroenterologist with privileges 7
eas M.D., a nephrologist with privileges at aa

>. a former member of the Purple Team ap

patient of the Respondent

 
 

a patient of the Respondent

 

 

 

 

PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

 

Having considered all of the evidence presented, I find the following facts by a
preponderance of the evidence:

1. At all times relevant to this proceeding, the Respondent was a licensed physician

in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in

Maryland on or about November 16, 2006, under License No. D65329. The

Respondent’s license is currently active and is due to expire on September 30, 2016.

2. The Respondent is engaged in the practice of internal medicine. He is not board

certified in any area of practice. ,

3. Since 2007, the Respondent has been affiliated with ip which became

GREED '2 December 2012, when aap aap
4. a acontract with the Respondent for him to provide services as a

hospitalist. A hospitalist is a physician whose primary responsibility is to care for

‘T have listed the actual names of the Respondent’s patients who voluntarily appeared at the hearing to testify for
the Respondent.
6
 

did not need any further treatment related to the complications. On January 3, 2014, at 2:46
p.m., Dr. Abassi assessed Patient A’s confidential electronic medical file. Immediately after
accessing Patient A’s file, Dr. Abassi called Patient A’s home. At 4:10 p.m., that same day,
January 3, 2014, Patient A’s wife saw a missed phone call on her home telephone’s Caller ID.
She called the number back, and Dr. Abassi answered the phone. They briefly spoke, and Dr.
Abassi asked Patient A’s wife to have Patient A call him. Prior to this January 3, 2014,
telephone conversation, neither Patient A nor his wife had any involvement or contact with Dr.
Abassi, nor had they ever heard of him.

On January 6, 2014, Patient A returned Dr. Abassi’s telephone call. Dr. Abassi falsely
told Patient A that he was part of the Hospital’s medical review board investigating Physician 1.
Dr. Abassi asked about Patient A’s surgery with Physician 1, and Patient A told him that he had
developed a hernia as a result of the surgery. Dr. Abassi asked whether Patient A was aware that
a major artery had been damaged during the surgery. Patient A said he was aware. Dr. Abassi
made disparaging remarks about Physician 1 and recommended that Patient A pursue legal
action against Physician 1. Dr. Abassi also told Patient A that he would call him back in a week
and that he was going to send him paperwork to sign.

After the telephone call, Patient A became concerned about the conversation, and, on
January 7, 2014, he called the Hospital. Patient A spoke with several Hospital executives and
told them about his conversation with Dr. Abassi.

On January 8, 2014, as a result of his conversation with Patient A, the Hospital
summarily suspended Dr. Abassi’s clinical privileges. The Hospital also initiated an audit of Dr.
Abassi’s use of the hospital’s computers to determine whether he had accessed the records of

patients with whom he had no involvement. The audit found that, between November 1, 2013,
 

patients who have been admitted to the hospital. Prior to the advent of hospitalists,
physicians in private practice would take care of their patients in the hospital.

5. Starting in 2009, prior to ne acquisition 0 the Respondent was
one of three physicians who had a contract wifi to provide hospitalist services as
part of what was known as the Purple Team, which the Respondent helped form. The
contract continued in force wher: purchased ae

6. On September 29, 2010 and July 15; 2013, the Respondent signed a statement

acknowledging receipt of nef ED ecical Staff Code of Professional

Conduct, which includes the requirement to “Not look up confidential data on patients
unless the information is necessary for the care of that patient.” (Joint Ex. # 10-6). .

7. Since 2012, the Respondent began working in a private medical practice, known

as the I :« while also working a»

8. In February 2013, ay implemented a paperless electronic medical records
system, known as the-McKesson.Horizon View system. While the hospital was
transitioning to the McKesson Horizon View system in 2013 and'2014, employees could
also access old paper-based records from the McKesson Physician View system, which
‘were scanned into the new system so they could be viewed on paper or electronically (on

- line). ,

9. All three physicians on the Purple Team had access to the hospital’s entire
medical records system as part of their membership on the medical staff and duties as a
hospitalist. .

10. For the period from July 2013 to January 2014, the Respondent was not on any

GD oomittces ‘that were investigating quality assurance matters, adult or infant

deaths, or negligent or substandard surgical outcomes.

7
 

11. ‘In the fall of 2013, the Respondent came to the attention of Stephen Pg
M.D. a: Vice President of Medical Affairs, when several complaints and quality
of care issues regarding the Respondent were brought to light.
12. In November 2013, the complaints and quality of care issues ed Ep «
Medical Staff Office and the ‘Medical Executive Committee to initiate an FPPE of the
Respondent. A Quality Oversight Committee was also convened to address the issues.
13. _ As part of its review > referred the matter for preliminary investigation, a
chart peer review audit, and other tracking of complaints.
14. As part of the FPPE process, the Respondent had the opportunity to address the
issues raised about his delivery of care. ,
15, On November 21, 2013, s Medical Executive Committee convened ‘an
- Executive Session and recommended continuation of an FPPE, a chart review to include
review of proper documentation, timely responses, appropriate care based on
professionally accepted standards, and medical reconciliation, The committee found that
the Respondent was ¢arrying such a large caseload that it had led him to cut comers.
16. The committee also recommended areduced workload for the Respondent, that he
seek counseling, and that he attend live courses on ethics, team building/communications,
and hospitalist medicine. .

17. Among the non-administration members og present at the Medical

Executive Committee on November 21, 2013 was ay... a surgeon at

18. The Respondent believed he had been treated unfairly in being subject to an FPPE

and believed that the actions being reviewed, with respect to a patient for whom he
 

ordered a computed tomography (CT) scan, should have been reviewed by a panel of
internists.
19, Afte took disciplinary action against the Respondent, he began looking
’ at patients’ medical records, without justification, for his own purposes.
20. On January 3, 2014, the Respondent accessed Patient A’s confidential medical
. record, which included information about the Patient’s 2011 surgery, in which Dr. fd]
was one of two surgeons involved.
21. On the same day, approximately one and one-half hours later, Patient A’s wife
arrived home and noticed a number on her caller ID and returned the call, thinking it may
have been important. When she called the number, the person who answered the phone
did so by asking if the caller was Patient A, using his first name. The person who
answered the call identified himself as the Respondent and asked Patient A’s wife to have
‘Patient A call him back. The Respondent did not state the reason for wanting to speak
with Patient A. .
22. Over the course of the next two days, Patient A attempted to return the
Respondent’s call and left a message at his private medical practice.
23. On January 6, 20 14, the Respondent contacted Patient A, a one-time patient at
ae representing that he was part of > <dica review board that was
reviewing cases of Dr P<. as part of that review, Patient A’s surgical
treatment at the hospital in 2011. The Respondent had accessed Patient A’s medical
record at -: obtained information about his scheduled gastric bypass surgery in
2011, which was not completed. .
24. The Respondent had no clinical reason to access Patient A’s medical record at
ee given that he and Patient A had never entered into a doctor/patient relationship,

9
 

nor did the Respondent or any member of the Purple Team treat Patient A. Neither was .
the Respondent called upon to consult regarding Patient A’s care while Td
Similarly, Patient.A did not give the Respondent permission to access Lisp
medical record.

25. During the January 6, 2014 call, the Respondent asked Patient A if he was aware
that >? the surgeon who performed the unsuccessful 2011 operation, nicked one
of Patient A’s arteries during the surgery. Due to the artery being nicked, he

e- was not performed. .

26. During the Respondent’s call to Patient A, the Respondent discussed the
possibility of financial compensation for the surgical errof and spoke disparagingly about
>a

27. The Respondent informed Patient A that he would like to pass the information on
to a “legal team” and that Patient A would be receiving some legal papers in the mail to
sign. The Respondent further noted that he would be calling back in about a week.

28. In response to questions from the Respondent about his health since the 2011
surgery, Patient A disclosed to the Respondent that he had surgery in late 2012 to repair
an incisional hernia caused by the 2011 surgery: Patient A farther disclosed that he has
not had any problems with the hernia repair since it was repaired in 2012.

29. At the time of the Respondent’s call to Patient A, Patient A had a primary care
physician with whom he was satisfied and who has treated him for over twenty years.
Patient A did not tell the Respondent he was seeking another physician for his primary

care or the services of a surgeon.

10
 

30. After the telephone conversation with the Respondent, Patient A began
considering that it was very odd for a doctor to be contacting him about being eligible for .
compensation as a result of a surgery that had not been performed successfully.
31, On January 7, 2014, Patient A contacted (Mind was referred to the Medical
Affairs Office to inform them of the unusual call he received from the Respondent.
32. On January 8, 2014, Dr. quuaip. president a: Medical Staff,
suspended the Respondent’s hospital privileges on an emergency basis, pending further
investigation. . .
33. Onor about January 10, 2014, ID management staff assigned Deborah
aa RN, then the Physician Quality Coordinator yg to perform an audit
: of the Respondent’s access of electronic medical tecords which were on 2 what is known as
the McKeeson system. Ms, a was selected due to her experience reviewing ;
medical records and because she is well-versed in the area of Information Technology,
34. As pait of ‘the audit, Ms > reviewed medical records from the period of
November 1, 2013 to January 8, 2014 in order to determine whether patient records
accessed by physician members of the Purple Team were, in fact, patients of those
physicians. .
35. In reviewing. the records accessed by the Respondent, Ms SP ove a
methodology that excluded those situations where the Respondent was the attending or
discharging physician, where he was assigned as the primary care physician in the
Emergency Department, where he or another Purple Team member had been called in as
@ consultant on a patient’s case by a doctor from the Emergency Department, where the

Respondent or any of the Purple Team physicians had entered an order or Progress note,

—_CT
* As of the dates of thie hearing, Ms. as serving in a new position, as a Clinical Systems Analyst,
Information Technology (IT) Departn
li
 

where any member of the Purple Team was referred to in the Miscellaneous section of
the Emergency Department record for the patient, or where any Purple Team physician
was on call for a patient’s case. The exclusions were applied to eliminate those medical
records that the Respondent may have had a legitimate reason to access.
36. The audit revealed that the Respondent was the only Purple Team physician who
accessed medical records of patients who were not his. The audit also showed that the
Respondent accessed the records of fifty-three patients for no legitimate reason. The
Respondent accessed one other person’s record, that of Patient B, who was later shown to
have been the Respondent’s private patient at some point.
37. Ofthe fifty-four patient records accessed, ninetéen were of patients who had died
in the Emergency Department (the date of the patients’ deaths ranged from February 2,
2013 to September ll, 2013), and five were of patients who had died during their
hospitalization, with dates ranging from February 23, 2013 to January 3, 2014.
38. On January 22, 2014, the Respondent telephoned Patient A and advised him that
he was aware that Patient A had contacted the hospital about their earlier telephone
” conversation. The Respondent informed Patient A that ap was trying to take away
his medical license for violating Patient A’s HIPAA rights. The Respondent explained
that-he was “just trying to stop Dr. Gi doing so many bad surgeries.” (Tr., p. 61).
39. Onor about January 22, 2014, the Board received Es Report of
Disciplinary Action, informing them of the Respondent’s summary suspension, effective
January 8, 2014. ;
40. During their January 22, 2014 telephone conversation, the Respondent requested
’ Patient A to have his wife tell ap: she sought out the Respondent as a primary
care physician for Patient A and that would be a justification for the Respondent to

12
 

access Patient A’s medical record. The Respondent was persistent in repeating his
request more than once, even after Patient A refused to agree to direct his wife to make
such a mistepresentation > Patient A eventually hung up on the Respondent.
The Respondent unsuccessfully tried to call Patient A again several more times.

' 41. After leaving a message on January 22, 2014 at about the call from the

Respondent, Patient A was able to speak to a! __ ice President, on

January 24, 2014 about the January 22, 2014 conversation with the Respondent.

42. On January 23, 2014, Dr. Gap. Gp: President, wrote to the Respondent
to inform bim that the Medical Executive Committee (MEC) met and voted to continue
the summary suspension of the Respondent’ s privileges Caiy

43. On January 25, 2014, Patient A provided a written statement =»
describing the calls he received from the Respondent. /

44, Patient A had subsequent conversations with Dr. aap Gp ss
Vice President of Medical Affairs, and Dr. Stephen SD Vice President of
Medical Affairs, and answered numerous questions (I management had about
Patient A’s conversations with the Respondent.

45. On March 14, 2014, Patient A provided an Affidavit containing a description of
his above-referenced telephone conversations with the Respondent.

46. | The Respondent views the disciplinary suspension as retaliation by EP vox
his expression of concern about patient care and the administration’s misuse of the
Emergency Department. The Respondent also denied violating the privacy and
confidentiality of any patient.
47. On April 2, 2014, 7 Ad Hoc Hearing Committee convened a hearing to
_ address the Respondent’s summary suspension. The Committee failed to find that the

13
 

Respondent’s summary suspension lacked any substantial basis or that it was arbitrary,

unreasonable or capricious.

48. In its report to the MEC, dated May 13, 2014, the Ad Hoe Hearing Committee
stated that there is sufficient evidence that the Respondent accessed numerous patient
records with no apparent legitimate-reason. .

49. At the present time, the Respondent holds a medical license in Maryland. He has
no record of any prior disciplinary action taken against his license in Maryland.

50. The Respondent remains active in the private practice of medicine, working out of

his medical office in yp. Maryland.
DISCUSSION
Applicable Law/Policies

The Board has charged the Respondent with violating section 14~-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Act.
The relevant grounds for reprimand or probation of a licensee, or the suspension or revocation of

- alicense under the Act include the following:

(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle,
a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of
the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(3) Is guilty of
Gi) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[.]
Mad. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (2014).

While the Act fails to provide any standard for or definition of the phrase “unprofessional
conduct,” the Maryland Court of Appeals reasonably defined the term to include conduct that
breaches rules or ethical codes of professional conduct or conduct unbecoming to a member in good

standing in the profession. Finucan v. Maryland Bd. of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577,

14
 

593, cert. denied, $43 U.S. 862 (2004). The Maryland Court of Appeals has consistently expanded
the definition of “in the practice of medicine” to include conduct such as sexual misconduct by
physicians with patients or hospital employees, false statements made by physicians during hospital
peer review investigations, Board investigations and disciplinary proceedings, and false statements —
made on physician license renewal applications. The Court has considered whether the conduct
“occurred while the physician was performing a task integral to his or her medical practice,”
Maryland Bd. of. Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59, 74 (1991), and whether the
‘conduct was “sufficiently intertwined with patient care.” Kim v. Maryland State Bd. Of. Physicians, ~
423 Md. 523 (2011).

The Board referred to the federal HIPAA’ statute that provides for the privacy of health
information. Gay: a “covered entity” under HIPAA. HIPAA requires ey] to protect
the privacy and security of health information and must provide individuals with certain tights
‘with respect to their health information, GREP ivteins a policy to ensure compliance with
HIPAA. aa Policy and Procedure Manual also provides mandatory HIPAA training at
the time of hire and on an annual basis for all employees and independent contractors.

American Medical Association (AMA) Opinion 7.025-Records of Physicians: Access by
’ Non-Treating Medical Staff provides:

Physicians who use or receive information from medical records share in the

responsibility for preserving patient confidentiality and should play an integral

role in the designing of confidentiality safeguards in healthcare institutions,

Physicians have a responsibility to be aware of the appropriate guidelines in their

healthcare institution, as well as the applicable federal and state laws.

Informal case consultations that involve the disclosure of detailed medical

information are appropriate in the absence of consent only if the patient cannot be
identified from the information.

_

° HIPAA is an acronym for the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. No.
104-191, 110 Stat. 2021 (codified as amended in scattered titles of the U.S.C.). It was enacted to safeguard the
privacy of individually-identifiable health information, .

15
 

Only physicians or other healthcare professionals who are involved in managing
the patient, including providing consultation, therapeutic, or diagnostic services,
may access the patient's confidential medical information. All others must obtain
explicit consent to access the information. Monitoring user access to electronic or
written medical information is an appropriate and desirable means for detecting
breaches of confidentiality. Physicians should encourage the development and
use of such monitoring systems. ,

This opinion focuses on the issue of access to medical records by medical staff
not involved in the treatment or diagnosis of patients. It does not address the need
to access medical records for clinical research, epidemiological research, quality
assurance, or administrative purposes.

State’s Exhibit #2 /
The AMA Principles of Medical Ethics provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
Preamble

The medical profession has long subscribed to a body of ethical statements
developed primarily for the benefit of the patient. As a member of this profession, a
physician must recognize responsibility to patients first and foremost, as well as to
society, to other health professionals, and to self. ‘The following Principles adopted
by the American Medical association are not laws, but standards of conduct which
define the essentials of honorable behavior for the physician.

1° Aphysician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical care, with
compassion and respect for human dignity and rights.

iL. A physician shall uphold the standards of professionalism, be honest in all
professional transactions, and strive to report physicians deficient in
character or competence, or engaging in fraud or deception, to appropriate
entities. .

I. A pbysician shall respect the law and also recognize a responsibility to seek
changes in those requirements which are contrary to the best interests of the

" patient. : :

IV.  Aphysician shall respect the.rights of patients, colleagues, and other health |

professionals, and shall safeguard patient confidences and privacy within the
constraints of the law. oo

State’s Exhibit #1

16
 

and January 8, 2014, Dr. Abassi accessed the electronic records of 53 patients with whom he had
no involvement and whose records he had no legitimate justification for accessing.

On January 22, 2014, Dr. Abassi called Patient A, and they spoke again. Dr. Abassi told
Patient A that he knew Patient A notified the Hospital of their previous conversation, that the
Hospital was trying to take away Dr. Abassi’s license, and that the Hospital prohibited Dr.
Abassi from returning to the Hospital. Dr. Abassi asked Patient A to tell the Hospital that either
he (Patient A) or his wife had asked Dr. Abassi to become Patient A’s primary care physician.
Patient A told Dr. Abassi that he did not want to speak with him anymore and hung up.

Patient A had never asked Dr. Abassi to become his primary care physician nor did he
ever seek any medical care from Dr. Abassi. Patient A and his wife were satisfied with their own
primary care physician, who had been treating them for over 20 years. Further, by 2014, Patient
A did not need any treatment for any condition or complication related to his surgery with
Physician 1 in 2011.°

DR. ABSSI’S EXCEPTION
Dr. Abassi does not dispute that it is unprofessional conduct for a physician to access
confidential medical records without a legitimate justification, nor does Dr. Abassi dispute that
the conduct at issue in this case was “in the practice of medicine.” Dr. Abassi only challenges

the ALJ’s credibility determinations.

“ The Hospital’s audit initially found that Dr. Abassi had illegitimately accessed 54 patient files,
but the Hospital ultimately lowered that number by one to 53, because Dr. Abassi had previously
treated one of the 54 patients (Patient B). Likewise, the Panel finds that Dr. Abassi accessed the
53 confidential patient files without a legitimate justification, with Patient B’s file not being
included in the 53 illegitimately accessed files.

> In his interview with the Board’s investigator, Dr. Abassi said that Patient A told him that he
was “looking for someone to help him fix an abdominal hernia.”

4
 

I. The State’s Case

The State notes that the Board’s disciplinary action is based upon its function and
responsibility to ensure that physicians act in a professional manner in the practice of medicine.
The State asserts that one of the highest obligations a physician has is protecting and maintaining

‘ patient confidentiality. In addition, it points out that the government has put in place rules and
regulations to ensure patient confidentiality. Pursuant to the federal HIPAA statute, hospitals have-
promulgated their own bylaws and codes of conduct that require its physicians to maintain patient
confidentiality. The conduct at issue here, however, deals with a physician’s duty to protect the
privacy of persons who were not his patients. The persons at issue here were patients of MedStar, .
just not the Respondent’s patients.

At the heart of the State’s case is the Respondent’s alleged access to non-patients’ private
medical records, which it points out that physicians are prohibited from accessing when they do not
have a professional relationship with that individual, a non-patient. The State alleges that the
Respondent inappropriately accessed the records of numerous non-patients, thereby violating
standards of professional ethics.

A. Patient A and his Spouse

The State presented the testimony of Patient A and his wife to describe the Respondent's
unwanted intrusion into their lives. Prior to the Respondent contacting Patient A and his wife,
neither of them had any puior relationship with him. They were never his patients nor had they ever

, contacted him to provide them with medical care. . /

Patient A’s wife testified regarding a call she received on January 3, 2014 from a number

she did not identify. When she responded to the call, the caller identified himself as the Respondent
and informed her he was trying to reach “[Patient A].” In replying to the notion that the Patient’s
wife ever attempted. to contact the Respondent because she was looking fora physician for the

17
 

Patient or that Patient A called the Respondent because he was looking for a surgeon, Patient A’s
wife found the concept ridiculous given that her husband was not in need of surgery and was
satisfied with his primary care physician. The witness laughed at the absurdity of the suggestion
that she initiated contact with the Respondent for the purpose he claimed.

Patient A testified about receiving the message from his wife about the Respondent’s

- telephone call to their home and attempting to call the number that he found on his caller ID.
Instead of reaching someone, Patient A received a fax machine-type tone. Patient A then looked up
the Respondent on the internet and called his medical practice to find out why the Respondent had
called. The office was closed. On January 6, 2014, Patient A was finally able to speak to alive
person. He explained that he told the person that he was returning the Respondent’s’call. Patient A
testified that at no time did he state to the person answering the phone or to the Respondent that he
was looking for a surgeon or a primary care physician. .

Patient A recalled that the Respondent returned his call about 5:00 p.m. on January 6, 2014,
and introduced himself as a member of a review board a p. ’ Patient A explained that the
Respondent informed him that he had reviewed his medical record p< seemed to know
about his 2011 surgery in detail. During the conversation, the Respondent asked Patient Aifhe was
aware of the fact that Dr. ee the surgeon who operated on Patient A in 2011, nicked one of his
arteries during surgery and further suggested that Patient A may be entitled to compensation for the
surgeon’s error. Patient A noted that, after further questioning by the Respondent about his health,
he disclosed to the Respondent that he had an incisional hernia arising out of his 2011 surgery. He
told the Respondent the hernia was subsequently repaired in a successful surgery in 2012. Patient A

also emphasized that he never gave the Respondent, whom he did not know, permission to access

- his medical record.

18
 

Patient A said that, after the telephone conversation with the Respondent, he thought it ©
highly irregular for a physician to contact him in that fashion, discuss his medical history, speak
disparagingly about another doctor’s work and further offer to refer his case to a “legal team” that
would provide him with papers to sign. Patient A noted that he began feeling more and more
uncomfortable about his exchange with the Respondent, which prompted Patient A to telephone

ee and inform someone there about the unsolicited call from the Respondent.

. On January 7, 2014, upon speaking to someone in th edical Affairs Office,
Patient A learned that the Respondent had been subject to recent disciplinary action at Gp:
was not a member of ea review board. Patient A noted that he described the telephone
conversation he had with the Respondent and answered numerous questions fom ap
management, - . :

Patient A went on to explain another disturbing telephorie encounter he had with the
Respondent, who telephoned him on January 22, 2014 and communicated that he was aware that
Patient A had provided ‘ormation about their earlier conversation. The Respondent
advised Patient A that the hospital was lying to Patient A. Patient A remembered the Respondent
saying that he was being investigated. He noted that the Respondent also said that he was only
trying to prevent DR performing bad surgeries.” The Respondent also requested the
Patient to have his wife ol > that she sought him out as a primary care physician for
Patient A and that would provide justification for the Respondent to have accessed the Patient’s
medical records. Patient A recalled that he refused the Respondent's persistent request and hung
up on him. Patient A then reported the January 22, 2014 conversation ——-

Patient A noted that the unsolicited and unauthorized attention from the Respondent has
caused him stress, aggravation, concern about retaliation by the Respondent, and a serious concern
about who has access to his medical records. He.is concerned that a stranger has a lot of information

19
 

about him, including what is in his medical records, and the knowledge of where he lives. Patient A
also explained that he has had to take time off from work as aresult of this intrusion into his life.
5 gb. | |

Dr. QED. GRR Vice President of Medical Afthis, explained his role as a hospital
administrator a Dr QP escrived the Respondent’s role > as a hospitalist
and one of three physicians who served on the Purple Team as independent contractors.

The witness verified that the Respondent has not, at least from July 2013 to January 2014,
served on any MedStar committees that investigated quality assurance matters, adult or infant ;
deaths, or negligent or substandard surgical outcomes. op went on to explain complaints
and quality of care issues in 2013 that led to the initiation of an FPPE of the Respondent. eg
was in the process of implementing a recommendation that the Respondent’s volume of patients be
reduced when, in January 2014, Patient A provided information that led to the Respondent’s
summary suspension,

Speaking of Patient A’s allegations from January 2014, Dr, mp: that “physicians
are sworn to uphold the privacy of our patients’ information.” He further explained that ifa
physician has a reasonable reason to be in a chart, that is acceptable, but if there is no legitimate
reason to be in a chart, a physician “has crossed the line of law and ethics.”

Once Patient A’s allegations were presented to Ga a= the hospital
imposed a summary suspension of the Respondent, effective January 8, 2014, and directed the IT
Department to complete a privacy audit of the Respondent's activities in the electronic medical
records to determine if there existed any legitimate clinical reason for the Respondent to have
accessed Patient A’s medical chart. a= also concemed about the allegations regarding the

Respondent calling Patient A, offering to assist him in obtaining legal representation, speaking

20
 

disparagingly about or ae and requesting Patient A to have his wife lie oR cbout the

nature of her January 3, 2014 phone conversation with the Respondent.

Dr. BD ccferres to the witnesses son 's IT Group for a thorough explanation
of the audits? findings. He surnmarized the audit’s findings by stating no found that the
Respondent accessed 54 records,’ including Patient A’s record, without any legitimate reason. Dr.
ey noted that the Respondent was provided a hearing on April 2, 2014, pursuant ZOE
bylaws, during which he was able to contest ID s allegations, which were based on the
privacy audit’s findings. Dr. QUID »ted thatthe Ac Hoc Committoe’s Report to the Medical
Executive Committee upheld P's earlier findings that the Respondent had violated patients’
HIPAA rights. .

Dr. GP +n: on to explain that he understands that the Respondent believes that the
instant charges against him are part of some retaliation against him by (IM, but he emphasized
that pursued this action because of the Respondent’s violation of patients’ HIPAA rights.

In his testimony, > briefly addressed the implausibility of the Respondent’s
response to the charges related to unauthorized access of medical records and deferred to the IT
professionals to explain that thie Respondent could not have “accidently” accessed electronic
medical records of patients whose names may have appeared in error on his patient list. Dr.
GD vointea out that the Respondent accessed the Physician View search function of the
medical record indicating that there were no patients on his list at the time. With the type of access
the Respondent had, it was not possible for those records to appear on his list without him
affirmatively going in and searching for names.

Similarly, Dr. RED touna little credence in the Respondent’s claim that patients whose

records he accessed had sought office care from him, therefore he had a right to view their hospital

7 Dr. Ges Patient B in this total.
21

 
 

records. Dr. @j§gMMimoted that he has not seen such evidence of any doctor/patient relationships
in the tecords accessed and, given the categories of patients whose records the Respondent had
accessed, it would be hard to believe that they sought care from the Respondent’s office.. For
example, the Respondent accessed numerous records of patients who arrived in the Emergency
Department and died immediately or shortly thereafter and could not have sought care in his office. .
a7 pointed out that there were also several infants and children whose records were
accessed and, therefore, could not have sought care in the Respondent’s office, as the Respondent is
not a pediatrician. As for the Respondent’s assertion that he had accessed records of deceased
patients because the Medical Examiner had called him about those patients, Dr. found it
extremely improbable that the Medical Examiner would be making such an inquiry for a patient
who had died months before the Respondent accessed that person’s electronic medical record. —
Mr. QED Vice President of IT at GP esis about the different forms of
recordkeeping at MedSiar, including paper records and the more recent electronic medical records.
He explained that ae went to a paperless system in February 2013 called the McKesson
’ Horizon View System. ‘Mr. GED ines that, with the advent of HIPAA in 1996, the
entire industry was required to secure the paper and electronic records. Rules and regulations
regarding access were put in place, in addition to an auidit trail to show who accessed each electronic
file. Tracker systems are able to show which user had access to which patient records.
we noted that, inamemo dated January 8, 2014, Dr. aaa then .
Associate Vice President of Medical Affairs at = requested IT to produce a report showing
all accounts where the Respondent accessed records, eliminating situations where a member of the
Purple Team was not the attending physician of record. The witness said that one thing the audit
revealed is that the Respondent accessed Patient A’s medical record on January 3, 2014. The

22
 

medical record showed that the Respondent was not listed as the attending, admitting, referring or
consulting physician for Patient A. The record further showed that the Respondent accessed the
patient’s demographic information. Ms also referred to Ms, QIN s findings,
which will be discussed below, that show the Respondent accessed medical records in a number of
instances where the patients were not in his immediate care or in the care of the Purple Team.

To discuss the audit off ecticnts’ records, the State presented the testimony of
Deborah {NP RN., who worked af I in early 2014 as the Physician Quality Control
Coordinator. Ms. ap is now employed ing: IT Department as a Clinical Systems
Analyst. In her former position, Ms, GBP estifiea that she produced reports regarding medical
records, as they relate to the areas of cote measures (reviewing open charts for sufficient
documentation), finance, and physician and nursing compliance. Ms. GaP is intimately
familiar with the details a: electronic medical records.

Ms. GP es tbat while she was serving in her former position in January 2014,

GBP 2x2¢ement asked her to review electronic medical records and determine when a
member of the Purple Team accessed an electronic record and identify whether the record was
accessed for that Team member’s actual patient
/ Ms. BED oxpiainea the methodology she used in poring over 100 pages of reports
generated by her audit inquiry for the period from November 1, 2013 to January 8, 2014. As Ms.
QED siceres the Purple Team physicians who accessed records, her review revealed that the
Respondent was the only Purple Team physician who had accessed charts not assigned to him.
In conducting the audit, wii described how she applied certain exclusion criteria
to eliminate from consideration all medical records the Respondent could possibly have had a
legitimate reason to access. wo pointed out how she excluded from consideration records
for a patient when any Purple Team physician was called or contacted or placed an order as a result

23
 

ofa rapid response, wrote a progress note or there was documentation that the Purple Team
physician was that patient’s primary care physician. Next, us > excluded records of
patients where the Emergency Department practitioner attempted to or actually contacted a Purple
Team physician.. Ms. poe went on to explain that patient records were also excluded from
consideration when a physician placed an order in the Emergency Department for any Purple Team
_-physician to consult on an Emergency Department patient’s case, even if that consult was not
performed by that Purple Team physician. The last exclusion applied to the audit was the situation
where any Purple Team physician’s name, phone number or office or clinic address was documented
in the miscellaneous section of the Emergency Department record. The last exclusion was applied
because a patient may have been referred to the Respondent and he would have had a legitimate
reason to look at the record.

Ms Gp referred to her audit report and testified that the audit revealed that the
Respondent accessed fifty-four patient accounts during the period in question. Of the fifty-four
patient accounts accessed, nineteen were those of patients who died in the Emergency Department,
five who died during hospitalization and two records were for those of infants. Six of the records
were accessed multiple times. There was no evidence the Respondent had been caring for any of the
patients whose record he accessed, with the exception of Patient B. For the patients who had died
during hospitalization, the Respondent was not a physician on the case and had not been consulted.
As for the infant charts, Ms. noted that the Respondent does not have privileges for
pediatric care. Ms. ED <0 pointed out, that on December 25 and 31, 2013 and January 1,
2014, the Respondent accessed records of the nineteen patients who died in the Emergency
Department from February 2013 to September 2013. She found it odd that a physician would have a
need to access medical records for patients who died up to ten months prior. In addition, in those
death cases, Ms. QP cntiones that the records do not show that the Respondent contacted the

24
 

Medical Examiner or that the Medical Examiner contacted the Respondent. During the audit, Ms.
GHEE 20 became aware of a separate Death Log that was kept in the Emergency Department .
without standard security provisions,

Based on the audit results, which show unauthorized patient access by the Respondent on
fifty-three occasions, Ms. a» ventured to speculate that the Respondent clicked into the
various charts from a list. In summary, after Ms ip conducted a privacy audit i
electronic medical records from November 1, 2013 to January 8, 2014, applying exclusion criteria to
eliminate any cases where the Respondent could have been said to have had a legitimate reason to
access the records of Br aticnts, she was clear in her conclusion that the Respondent accessed:
numerous patient records with no legitimate justification.

i. The Respondent’s Case

The Respondent’s position is that he did not do anything improper in accessing the medical
records identified in these cases, He maintains that he is able to explain his access to the non-death
records, He further recognizes that his testimony is irreconcilable, with Patient A and his wife and
only describes the chasm as “a fundamental disconnect.” The Respondent spoke of his dedication
to the field of medicine and his colleagues’ and patients’ high regard for his honesty, integrity,
trustworthiness and professionalism. He argued that a suspension, which he maintains is
unwarranted, would-be the death knell for his career in medicine, In the alternative, if a sanction is
in order, the Respondent offered that a reprimand and continuing education would be more

_ appropriate.

A. The Respondent’s Testimony

The Respondent testified about his origins in Nigeria and coming to this country in 1991 .-
seeking political asylum, which the United States granted in 1994, He summarized his medical
training and the path he took that led him o> The Respondent Uscussed (amass

25
 

transition from a small family-owned hospital to a corporate entity. He also explained how he was
instrumental in forming the Purple Team P= his role as a hospitalist there.

The Respondent noted that he has not encountered any problems while onrking at three
other hospitals in the region. He made a point of stating that lie understands the importance of
patient confidentiality. He noted that in his private practice he maintains a separate room for
patients’ charts. -

In explaining that (wos in transition to an electronic medical records system during
the period covered by the audit, November 1, 2013 through January 8, 2014, he was able to log into
the old and the new systems.’ He pointed out that he saw some patients he did not recognize on a list
of patients under his care. The Respondent pointed out that he needed to research those names in

eg s electronic patient records.

Regarding the death records, the Respondent asserted that a Dr. Sandrafiypeave him the
name of a patient who came to GF c24-cn-aniva (DOA) and that it was the Respondent’s
responsibility as the Purple Team Physician on call to sign the death certificate. He denied accessing
any records associated with patient deaths in the emergency room or during hospitalization that he
had no reason to access, The Respondent explained that the Death Log kept in the Emergency
Department only has patient numbers and he had to access the electronic record to locate the
decedent by name. At some point in the proceedings, the Respondent also indicated that he accessed
the record of a deceased patient in response to a telephone inquiry from the Medical Examiner.

With respect to patients who were not DOA and who did not expire in the hospital, the.
Respondent went on to describe that sometimes a patient’s name that he does not recognize will
appear on his list of patients. In those cases, he will access the electronic record and discover only
about fifty percent of the time that the patient is actually under his care. He noted that sometimes
the patient will be connected to another colleague or is now under the care of another doctor.

26
 

At the OAH hearing, Dr. Abassi testified that (1) he did not initiate the contact with
Patient A or his wife; (2) he did not access Patient A’s electronic medical file (or, if he did, he
did so unintentionally); and (3) his reasons for accessing the 52 other electronic patient files at
issue were legitimate. The ALJ did not find Dr. Abassi credible, finding his testimony

D0 cee

“inconsistent,” “illogical,

99 cee

implausible” and “incredible.” Conversely, the ALJ found Patient A
and his wife “very credible.’ The ALJ focused on the discrepancies between Dr. Abassi’s
versions of events and the hospital records and on the implausibility that Patient A would initiate
contact with Dr. Abassi. Eight witnesses (patients and colleagues) vouched for Dr. Abassi’s
professionalism and integrity. The ALJ found they were sincere and well-intentioned but that
their high regard for Dr. Abassi was insufficient to overcome the compelling evidence against
him.

Dr. Abassi argues the ALJ erred in accepting the testimony of Patient A and Patient A’s
wife and by rejecting his (Dr. Abassi’s) testimony. Dr. Abassi mainly relies upon the testimony
of the eight character witnesses he presented.

The State argues that the Panel should accept the ALJ’s credibility determinations,
relying upon the fact that the ALJ observed the witnesses testify. The State also argues that Dr.
Abassi’s testimony was inconsistent, contradicted by the hospital’s records, and implausible.

In order to assess the credibility of the witnesses, it is necessary to compare the testimony
of the witnesses with the Hospital’s records. The Hospital’s computer system recorded that, on
January 3, 2014, at “14:46:09” (2:46 p.m.), Dr. Abassi accessed Patient A’s electronic file. (Joint
Exhibits 10-18A and 10-18E.) According to Patient A’s wife, on that same day, January 3, 2014,
she returned home from work at approximately 4:10 p.m. Upon returning home, she saw that

someone had called her home phone while she was out and that the caller’s telephone number
 

In addressing the fifty-four patients whose electronic medical records he accessed, the
Respondent indicated ha gave him the names of only two patients whose records he
purportedly accessed, Patient A and Patient B. Patient B’s medical record was one of the fifty-four
GRD. «<0: records the Respondent accessed. The Respondent provided documentation to
a corroborating his assertion that Patient B had also.been a private practice patient of his.

As far as Patient A is concerned, the Respondent acknowledged speaking with Patient A,
stating that the patient contacted him by telephone, looking for a surgeon to repair his abdominal
hernia. He recalled that the conversation was brief. The Respondent stated that he told Patient A
that he is not a surgeon, but a primary care physician. The Respondent also denied ever telling
Patient A that he was on GP <iew committee or that he reviewed his medical chart. He
initially stated in his testimony at this hearing that he never reviewed Patient A’s chart: On
cross-examination, the Respondent acknowledged the possibility that he accessed Patient A’s
medical record,

The Respondent emphatically denies that he offered to arrange for legal representation for
Patient A. He also denies that he ever called Patient A a second time (on January 22, 2014) and
réquested Patient A to have his wife falsely tell ED stat thats she had contacted him because
she was seeking a primary care physician for Patient A.

The Respondent noted that he could not document that other patients whose records he may
have accessed were in fact his patients because he was not given their names and he was denied -
access 10RD -<coras once his privileges a were summarily suspended on January 8, ,
2014. .

The Respondent was asked about any issues he had with BBP =n-gement in 2013. He
explained that he had raised issues about patient care and concerns about the Purple Team’s contract
wi i The Respondent characterized his relationship with RD «s “turning sour”

27
 

around July or August 2013. Specifically, he recalled a situation where iD called into
question medical care he provided for an Emergency Department patient. GP ier the
Respondent’s actions with respect to that patient and initiated an FPPE, a focused review, of his
actions. The Respondent feels strongly that the review process was unfair and that his concerns,
were not addressed by Qe enegement. He also described a separate situation where Dr.
a: yelling at him, making accusations, and referring to complaints from nurses. Overall,
he categorized his working environment with p< Dr. be hostile towards the
end of 2013. /

_On cross-cxamination, the Respondent agreed that a physician may not access a patient’s
confidential medical information unless he is either managing the patient or providing consultative,
therapeutic or diagnostic services. He also agreed that if a physician accesses the record of. a patient
with whom he does not have a relationship, that it constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine. .

In clarification on cross-examination and on re-direct, the Respondent stated that he told the
Board that he did not access Patient ABD esicai records, In response to several questions
about this, he also stated it is possible that he accessed the Patient’s record. Reference was made in
the record to the Respondent accessing Patient A’s demographic record. The Respondent affirmed
that demographic data is part of the Patient’s confidential medical information. The demographic
information includes information about the surgery the Patient underwent and that am
was one of his surgeons.
B. Character Witnesses
Paticnts IED od bis wite i aD -< eae
a: presented as character witnesses. Similarly, physician colleagues Gee. Bp
aa eas od some of whom are also the Respondent’s friends, also

28
 

testified in support of the Respondent. The patients described the Respondent as caring,
knowledgeable, trustworthy, professional and compassionate. a used the terms “great”
and “phenomenal” in speaking about the Respondent. Mr. iFeferrea to the Respondent as his
teacher and mentor, calling him a caring person and an honorable man. He noted that the
Respondent has traveled to medical missions in Africa and elsewhere to help others in need.

Dr. ee spoke of the Respondent as a mentor who trains clinicians and interns and.
serves as a consultant to the Centers for Disease Control. He explained that the Respondent has
adopted a leadership role in fighting the Ebola virus in Sierra Leone, Dr. pre has known the
Respondent for about eight years, characterized him as a very competent physician who is “very
good with patients,” and knowledgeable, someone who stands out in his profession. oa isa
nephiologist to whom the Respondent refers cases. Dr. ae spoke about accessing medical
records, - He testified that his name may not also appear in a patient’s records when he is called upon
for a consult, but he indicated that he would have documentation ready: if anyone questioned
whether he has a professional relationship with that patient.

Dr. cd also a eae physician and friend of the Respondent since 2007, testified
about his role as one of the independent contractor physicians who served MedStar as a member of
the Purple Team. He described the Respondent as being passionate, caring and hard-working. He
noted that the Respondent was concemed about oe ten population not receiving
excellent care. Dr. | that the Respondent “makes sacrifices for patients i
Maryland.” | a

In speaking of the electronic medical record system o p>. GD sxe that, asa
physician in private practice, he would have remote access o i: McKesson system. He

explained that he could remotely check (ys records of someone who came to see him in his

29
 

private practice. Dr GP acknowledged that he would have a chart to prove that the
patient was, in fact, his.
“I. Dia the Respondent Engage in Unprofesinal Conduct inthe Practice of Medicine?

The Respondent does not dispute that it is well established that.a physician who accesses
medical records ‘which he has no justification to access is engaging in unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine. “The evidence clearly establishes that the Respondent, without justification,
accessed a series oD v2ticnts medical records from November 1, 2013 to January 8, 2014,
resulting inf sree his privileges there.

‘What serves as a backdrop for the relevant sequence of events is the Respondent’s
involvement in a patient’s care in August 2013, which led 7d subjecting the Respondent to
an FPPE, a focused evaluation, in early November 2013. The Respondent believes the process of
the review and corrective action taken against him were patently unfair. One of the members of

the GD: <view committee that recommended disciplinary action against the Respondent
arising out of the August 2013 patient care incident was Dr. a a surgeon 7
After the action was taken against the Respondent > in November 2013, the Respondent
began looking at medical records, without justification, for his own purposes.

Although there weré a whole series fa patients for which the Respondent had no
justification to antes their medical records, it is helpful to look at two separate groups of
records. One involves emergency room deaths and infants, and the other covers other patients.

The Respondent was unable to refute the State’s evidence that he accessed the records of
those in the “other” category because he claims he was denied access to those records and had no
idea who those patients are. He argued that, if he could have leamed the identity of the patients,

he could have shown that he had a clinical/office relationship with those patients by producing
his private medical office charts for those patients.

30
 

The State accurately pointed out that the Respondent could have subpoenaed MD
records for the patients at issue as part of his defense and then presented records from his
medical office to show that he had a clinical relationship with them. The Respondent’s defense
that he had such a clinical relationship with the patients in the other category is unsupported by
any evidence other than his word, which for reasons Iwill state below, is very questionable.

The other category of patient records the Respondent accessed is emergency room deaths
and infants. His only explanation for combing through the records of patients who died in the
emergency room is that a Dr, GR called him sometime during the Christmas week of
2013 and asked him to look up a death record ofa patient who recently died in order to provide
information for a death certificate. The Respondent did not present Dr. GR a witness to
corroborate that claim. He was also unable to provide the name of the decedent. Looking at the
listing of decedents from the emergency room, the most recent date of death was September 11,
2013, which rendered the Respondent’s explanation contradictory and illogical. The Respondent -
also had no valid explanation for why he looked up the charts of the infants.

The Respondent knew from his work | that he had no right to access non-patient’s
records and, according to Dr. ee the Respondent had no right to access the records of his
own patients without justification.

The testimony of Ms ED. as discussed above, clearly sets out the methodology she
utilized in identifying patient records the Respondent accessed without justification. Ms. ad
provided a detailed description of the exclusion criteria she utilized as part of the process of
identifying those medical records that the Respondent accessed with justification. ‘Not only did

that analysis reveal that the Respondent accessed mumnerous medical records without justification,

_ italso showed that he was the only Purple Team physician who did so. The audit, as explained by

31
 

Ms produced an electronic “fingerprint” of the Respondent as he accessed records
without authorization. /

One of the most troubling aspects of this case is the Respondent’s unauthorized accessing
of medical records, including those of Patient A, and the outrageous behavior the Respondent
exhibited when be contacted him. The Respondent only admits that it is possible that he
accessed Patient A’s medical record | but he denies that he contacted Patient A, other

. than to respond to Patient A’s call to his medical office, during which Patient A was ostensibly

. inquiring about seeking a surgeon to repair his hernia. The Respondent’s responses to Patient
A’s account of his interaction with the Respondent, who was a total stranger to Patient A before —
the Respondent telephoned Patient A’s homé, are illogical, implausible and incredible.

The Respondent’s suggestion that a woman representing Patient A telephoned his office
looking for a physician was absurd to Patient A and his wife because they have an internist they
are satisfied with and who has been treating them for over twenty years. As part of her job,
Patient A’s wife is familiar with many of the physicians in the county. Even if she had been
looking for a new physician, Patient’s A’s wife testified that she knows there are “plenty of
really great doctors” in GER county and she would not have to go outside fa County

to find one. . .

Jt ig no coincidence that the Respondent accessed Patient A’s medical records on the
afternoon of January 3, 2014, which preceded the attempted calls he made to Patient A’s home.
The Respondent clearly had been searching Patient A’s medical records, most likely for the
purpose of trying to gain information about hospital officials or hospital improprieties, likely in
retaliation for the disciplinary action he faced in November 2013. I would have to believe thata
miraculous coincidence occurred if I accepted the notion that Patient A’s wife just happened to
call the Respondent’s office unsolicited on January 3, 2014, only about an hour and one-half

32
 

after the Respondent accessed her husband’s record, the latter of which the Respondent only
states may have happened. The audit of hospital records confirms that the Respondent accessed
Patient A’s confidential medical record. ,

{ find the accounts of Patient A and his wife to be very credible. I found their laughter to
be very telling and appropriate when testifying in response to the Respondent’s claim that Patient
A ealled his office because he was looking for a surgeon to repair his hernia. Both Patient A and
his wife testified that Patient A’s hernia had been successfully repaired in 2012 and he bad no
need for a surgeon in January 2014. It is inconceivable to me that Patient A and his wife would
give much of their time in providing written statements, subjecting themselves to numerous.
interviews by GR and the Board, missing work, and appearing at hearings in order to
fabricate a story against a man who is a total stranger to them. The concept that they would do
all of this is utterly ridiculous. Patient A and his wife have nothing to gain in making the ©
allegations they have consistently and steadfastly asserted since bringing the Respondent’s
actions to fa: attention. On the other hand, I note that the Respondent’s accounts of what
occurred have been both inconsistent and illogical. I addressed the logic issue above. As far as
the Respondent’s inconsistency, he stated that he did not access Patient A’s medical record, but
subsequently at this hearing he acknowledged it is possible that he did.

The Respondent also denies that he represented that he was part of aR view
committee, that he had a discussion with Patient A about assisting him in obtaining legal
representation, or that he spoke disparagingly of Dr. Se Similarly, and not very credibly, the
Respondent denied that he telephoned Patient A several times on January 22, 2014 in an aggressive
attempt to encourage Patient A to have his wife misrepresent to inquiring personnel that »

she initiated contact with the Respondent because she was assisting her husband in obtaining a

33
 

primary care physician. | find the Respondent’s dential about making the January 22, 2014 call to
Patient A beyond belief. : ,

It wos s audit of patient records that revealed the Respondent had accessed an
additional fifty-two patient records without authorization. Itis understandable, given the extent of
the confidentiality breaches, hot did not initially provide the Respondent with the names,
other than those of Patients A and B, corresponding to the records the Respondent accessed for no

legitimate reason. However, I note that the Respondent, as part of this proceeding, was not denied
a request for the names of the patients. There is no indication he subpoenaed or requested the
information from the State in any way as this matter was pending before the OAH. His defense
regarding the fifty-two other patients was that that he did not do anything improper in accessing the
medical records identified in these cases. He presented no documentation to support that defense.

In summary, I find that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine in violation of section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article by
accessing medical records without authorization and by using information obtained to harass and
intimidate a patient and his wife. He also violated QP policy and the AMA guidelines
noted above. ,

Iv. Sanction

 

In this case, the State is seeking to impose a one-year suspension of the Respondent’s
medical license, and a requirement that he be referred by the Board for a general evaluation by
the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program, which is administered through The Maryland
State Medical Society (MedChi), and the Board. Such an order would include the requirement
that the Respondent be mandated to attend and abide by all of the measures recommended. The
State additionally requested that I recommend that after the Respondent’s suspension, he remain
on probation for three years, be supervised in order to determine whether his professional

34
 

behavior meets the standards of the profession, and be required to complete appropriate
coursework in the area of medical ethics and that he should pay a fine of $30,000.00. COMAR
10 .32.02.09 sets forth the general sanctioning guidelines for physicians, providing in pertinent
part as follows:®
09 = Sanctioning and Imposition of Fines.
A. General Application of Sanctioning Guidelines.

qd) Sections A and B of this regulation and Regulation

-10 of this chapter do not apply to offenses for which a’
mandatory sanction is set by statute or regulation.

(2) Except as provided in §B of this regulation, for
violations of Health Article §§14-404(a) ... Annotated
Code of Maryland, the [Board’s] disciplinary panel shall
: impose a sanction not less severe than the minimum listed
s in the sanctioning guidelines nor more severe than the
maximum listed in the sanctioning guidelines for each
offense.

@) Ranking of Sanctions.

(a) __ For the purposes of this regulation, the
severity of sanctions is ranked as follows, from the
least severe to the most severe:

@ Reprimand;
(ii) Probation;
(iii) Suspension; and

(iv) Revocation.

(b) __ A stayed suspension in which the stay is
conditioned on the completion of certain
requirements is ranked as probation.

(c) A stayed suspension not meeting the criteria
for §A(3)(b) of this regulation is ranked as a
reprimand. . :

* COMAR 10.32.02.10 provides a matrix for sanctions for various violations of the Act.
. 35 .
 

() _A fine listed in the sanctioning guidelines
may be imposed in addition to but not as a
substitute for a sanction.

(e) ° The addition of a fine does not change the
ranking of the severity of the sanction.

(4) The disciplinary panel may impose more than one
sanction, provided that the most severe sanction neither
exceeds the maximum nor is less than the minimum
sanction permitted in the chart.

(6) Any sanction may be accompanied by conditions
reasonably related to the offense or to the rehabilitation of
the offender. The inclusion of conditions does not change
the ranking of the sanction.

(8) Depending on the facts and’circumstances of each
* case, and to the extent that the facts and circumstances
apply, the disciplinary panel may consider the aggravating
and mitigating factors set out in §B(5) and (6) of this
regulation and may in its discretion determine, based on
those factors, that an exception should be made and that the .
sanction in a particular case should fall outside the range of
_sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

(9) Ifthe disciplinary panel imposes a sanction that
departs from the sanctioning guidelines set forth in
Regulation’.10 of this chapter, the disciplinary panel shall
state its reasons for doing so in its final decision and order.

Aggravating and Mitigating Factors.

(1) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each
case, and to the extent that the facts and circumstances

apply, the disciplinary panel may consider the aggravating
and mitigating factors set out in §B(5) and (6) of this
regulation and may in its discretion determine, based on

those factors, that an exception should be made and that the ©
sanction in a particular case should fall outside the rangé of
sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

(Q) Nothing in this regulation requires the disciplinary

panel or an administrative law judge to make findings of
fact with respect to any of these factors.

36
 

was recorded on Caller ID. Patient A’s wife immediately called that number. Dr. Abassi
answered her call, and they spoke. Dr. Abassi requested that she ask Patient A to call him. Until
this telephone conversation, neither Patient A nor his wife had ever spoken with Dr. Abassi, ever
attempted to contact him, or knew who he was. There is no dispute that Dr. Abassi had never
met nor had any contact with Patient A or his wife prior to January 3, 2014. The testimony of
Patient A’s wife is consistent with the Hospital’s computer records.

Dr. Abassi’s versions of events are inconsistent and belied by the Hospital’s records. Dr.
Abassi had repeatedly denied that he accessed Patient A’s records. On February 28, 2014, Dr.
Abassi wrote to the Board, “I did not access any of [Patient A’s] records. I had no reason to
access [Patient A’s] records because he decided not to establish any relationship with my office.”
(Joint Exhibit 4, at 3.) Also, when Dr. Abassi testified before the hospital, he was asked whether
he accessed Patient A’s records and answered, “No, no, no. I was not accessing. I did not access.
And even in my response to the state, I had mentioned I did not access [Patient A’s] chart.”
(Joint Exhibit 10-30, Transcript, April 2, 2014, at 198.) And when Dr. Abassi testified before the
ALJ, he was asked whether he recalled accessing the hospital’s records associated with Patient A
and testified, “No, Your Honor. No, I do not.” (Transcript, July 22, 2015, at 346.) Later in his
testimony before the ALJ, however, Dr. Abassi changed his position, stating that, on January 3,
2014, he may have, or did, unintentionally access Patient A’s electronic record. (Transcript, July
22, 2015, at 395.)

The Panel finds that Dr. Abassi’s testimony is not credible. The Hospital’s computer
system recorded that Dr. Abassi accessed Patient’s electronic file. He accessed Patient A’s

electronic file approximately 85 minutes before Patient A’s wife saw Dr. Abassi’s telephone
 

(3) A departure from the sanctioning guidelines set
forth in Regulation .10 of this chapter is not a ground for
any hearing or appeal of a disciplinary panel action.

(4) The existence of one or more of these factors does
not impose on the disciplinary panel or an administrative

- law judge any requirement to articulate its reasoning for not
exercising its discretion to impose a sanction outside of the
range of sanctions set out in the sanctioning guidelines.

(5) Mitigating factors may include, but are not limited
to, the following:

(a) The absence of a prior disciplinary record;
(b) The offender self-reported the incident;

(c) The offender voluntarily admitted the
misconduct, made full disclosure to the disciplinary
panel and was cooperative during the disciplinary

* panel proceedings; :

(d) - The offender implemented remedial
measures to correct or mitigate the harm arising
from the misconduct;

(ce) The offender made good faith efforts to
make restitution or to rectify the consequences of
the misconduct;

® The offender has been rebabilitated or
exhibits rehabilitative potential;

(g) | The misconduct was not premeditated;

(h) There was no potential harm to patients or
the public or other adverse impact; or .

@ The incident was isolated and is not likely to
recur.

(6) Aggravating factors may include, but are not limited.
to, the following: :

(a): The offender has a previous criminal or
administrative disciplinary history;

37
 

(b) The offense was committed deliberately or
with gross negligence or recklessness;

(c) The offense had the potential for or actually
did cause patient harm;

(d) The offense was part of a pattern of
detrimental conduct; .

(©) The offender committed a combination of
factually discrete offenses adjudicated i in a single
‘action; ~

® _ The offender pursued his or her financial
gain over the patient’s welfare; .

(g) The patient was especially vulnerable;

(h) The offender attempted to hide the error or
misconduct from patients or others;

@ > ‘The offender concealed, falsified or
destroyed evidence, or presented false testimony or
» evidence;

Q@ The offender did not cooperate with the
investigation; or

(k) _ Previous attempts to rehabilitate the offender were
unsuccessful. .

The Respondent has no disciplinary history. On the other hand, I find that there ‘are

several aggravating factors to be considered. I agree with the Board that the Respondent’s offense

was a series of deliberate actions on his part. Aside from the numerous privacy violations

committed against the many patients revealed by an audit of the electronic medical records the

Respondent accessed without authorization, his actions also caused Patient A and his wife much

mental distress. Both Patient A and his wife explained their consternation at being contacted by a

stranger who began discussing Patient A’s medical history with him. The offense was part of a

pattern of detrimental conduct that involved invading the privacy of a group of individuals. As

Patient A realized that the initial unsolicited contact from the Respondent was highly irregular, he

38
 

contacted (IP management staff. It was after reporting the Respondent’s actions that the
Respondent contacted Patient A again, aggressively trying to obtain information from him while
at the same tire pressuring Patient A to encourage his wife to make a misrepresentation to
GRP esse! in an attempt to cover-up his misdeed. Both Patient A and his wife have had -
to spend much time and energy as they have participated, as requested by | the State,
in this disciplinary process.

It is apparent that all through the process, the Respondent has made false statements and
provided inconsistent information oi and the Board, in attempts to hide his conduct in
accessing confidential medical records without authorization and in having inappropriate
conversations with Patient A. The Respondent has clearly chosen the path of denying the
allegations, in the face of strong evidence, repeating the denials and digging in his heels, even as
inconsistencies and logical flaws in his position were brought to his attention. He has, for the
most part, decided “to stonewall it,” that is, to remain steadfast in his denials throughout the
process, with the one exception of acknowledging now that he may have accessed Patient A’s .
record. This is not a situation where a wrongdoer has acknowledged the error of his ways and
shown remorse.

The Respondent asserted a defense, yet he did not offer the testimony of Dg or . -
anyone else to corroborate his bald assertion that he was justified in accessing the records of
those patients other than Patient A. The only patient whose record the Respondent may have had
a legitimate purpose in accessing was that of Patient B, who was a private patient of his at some
point. : .

As a physician who acknowledged in vriting SD policy regarding patient privacy
on at least two occasions during his career there, he knew of the confidentiality requirements

regarding hospital patients, including those with whom he had no physician/patient relationship.

39
 

I have considered the testimony of the Respondent’s patients and colleagues, who spoke
of his honesty, integrity and professionalism. I do not doubt the sincerity and good intentions of
_ those witnesses who hold the Respondent in high regard. More significantly, however, I have
focused on the volume of evidence that establishes that the Respondent accessed numerous
medical records without authoridation and his i improper communication with Patient A and the
impact of his actions on others, .

The Respondent is still currently engaged in the clinical practice of medicine in his
private medical practice, although (ED »=s suspended his medical privileges there.

The Regulations require me to consider all of this disparate information, including the
facts of this case and all mitigating and aggravating factors, in order to recommend a fair and
effective sanction. In this Proposed Decision, I have concluded that the State has proven by a
preponderance of the evidence a pattern of privacy violations by the Respondent that constituted _
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of the Act. The Respondent’s .
explanations fly in the face of logic and of the considerable weight of the evidence.

I recommend that the Respondent be suspended from the practice of medicine for one
year, followed by three years of probation, with a referral to the Maryland Professional -

- Rehabilitation Program for a general evaluation, with any attendant recommendations, and a
requirement to attend any applicable course in medical ethics the Board may inipose. I further
recommend that the Respondent be required to pay a fine of $30,000.00.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the foregoing Proposed Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter
of law that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of the Medical Practice Act. Md. Code Ann, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) (2014);
Finucan v..Maryland Ba. of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Ma. 577, cert. denied 543 US. 862

40.
 

(2004); Maryland Bd, of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59, 74 (1991); and Kim v.
Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians, 423 Md. 523 (2011). As aresult, I conclude that the Board may
discipline the Respondent for the cited violations. Md. Code Anh., Health Oce. § 14-404{a); .

COMAR 10.32.02.09A and B.

 

PROPOSED DISPOSITION

I PROPOSE that charges filed by the’ Board against the Respondent on November 19,
2014, be UPHELD, and

L PROPOSE that the Respondent be suspended for a period of one year, followed by a
three-year period of probation.

I further PROPOSE that the Resporident be referred to the Maryland Professional

Rehabilitation Program for a general evaluation, and be required to attend any applicable course
in medical ethics the Board may impose,

I further PROPOSE that the Respondent be required to pay a fine of $30,000.00.

. ‘ ‘ ‘
October 19, 2015 An) : x 4
Date Decision Issued - Louis N, Hurwitz :

Administrative Law Judge

 

LNH/dlm
#158496 |

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

 

Any party may file exceptions to this proposed decision with the disciplinary panel of the
Board of Physicians and request a hearing on the exceptions. The exceptions must be written .
and be filed within fifteen (15) working days from the date of the proposed order. COMAR
10.32.02.05B(1). The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the disciplinary
panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Atin:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, Compliance Administration.

. A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attorney. The opposing party
will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of any written exceptions to file a response. Jd The

response must be addressed as above. Id. The Office of Administrative Hearings is not a party
to any review process. ,

41
 

Copies Mailed To:

Christine Farrelly, Executive Director
Compliance Administration
Maryland Board of Physicians

' 4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, MD 21215

Robert J. Gilbert, AAG

Administrative Prosecutor

Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division
Office of the Attomey General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer

Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General :

300 West Preston Street, Room 201.

Baltimore, MD 21201

Jobn T. Harrington, Esquire

The Employment Law Group, PC
888 17™ Street, NW, 9" Floor
Washington, DC 20006

' Rasheed Abassi, M.D.
11524 Cosca Park Place
Clinton, MD 20735

John Nugent, Principal Counsel

Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

42
 

number on Caller ID. There is no doubt that Dr. Abassi accessed Patient A’s confidential
electronic file, and there is no doubt that he did so intentionally.

Dr. Abassi’s explanations for his accessing the remaining confidential medical records
are also untenable. The Hospital reviewed Dr. Abassi’s computer access from November 1,
2013, though January 8, 2014. The audit found that, during this period Dr. Abassi accessed
records of 53 patients, which he had no legitimate basis viewing.

One of Dr. Abassi’s explanations is that he accessed the medical records in order to
comply with a request from an Emergency Room physician to complete a death certificate. He
was, however, unable to identify the deceased individual. According to Dr. Abassi, he was asked
to sign the death certificate during the holiday season in late December 2013. But, according to
Dr. Abassi, he misplaced the name given to him and had to search through the patient files to
find the correct patient. Dr. Abassi further testified that the Emergency Room death at issue
occurred within 24 hours of the Emergency Room physician’s request for him to complete the
death certificate and that a death certificate must be signed within 72 hours of the death. The
evidence shows, however, that the most recent Emergency Room death prior to late December
2013, was September 11, 2013, several months before Dr. Abassi claims he was asked to sign the
death certificate. (Tr., 7/21/2015, at 179-80; Joint Ex. 10-29 at 3.)

In light of the specific and reliable evidence contradicting Dr. Abassi’s testimony, the
Panel does not accept Dr. Abassi’s contention that the Panel should find him credible based upon

the witnesses who testified in general about his professionalism and integrity. The Panel does not
 

accept Dr. Abassi’s testimony.° Except as otherwise specifically noted, the Panel adopts the
ALJ’s credibility determinations. Dr. Abassi’s exception is denied.
CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based upon the findings of fact, Board Disciplinary Panel A concludes that Dr. Abassi is
guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of
the Health Occupations Article.

SANCTION

The ALJ recommended a one-year suspension followed by three years of probation,
enrollment in MPRP, a $30,000 fine, and an ethics course. Dr. Abassi did not take exception to
the ALJ’s recommended sanction, although, during the exceptions hearing before the Panel, Dr.
Abassi’s counsel did ask that Dr. Abassi’s license not be suspended.

Protecting the confidentiality of patients’ records is a responsibility the Panel takes
extraordinarily seriously. Dr. Abassi showed no regard for patient confidentiality in this case.
Even more disturbing, however, are Dr. Abassi’s intentions and his use of the confidential
information. The evidence indicates that Dr. Abassi accessed the records to try to uncover
information to use in retaliation for the FPPE. Dr. Abassi used the improperly attained
confidential information to contact a former patient of the Hospital, a patient with whom Dr.
Abassi had no previous relationship. Dr. Abassi falsely told the patient that he was part of a
hospital committee conducting a review of another physician at the Hospital. Dr. Abassi’s false
representation prompted the patient to provide Dr. Abassi with even more information about his
6 In finding Dr. Abassi not credible, the ALJ partly relied upon Dr. Abassi’s decision to not call
the physician he claims asked him to complete the death certificate as a witness. (ALJ’s
Proposed Decision at 31, 39.) The Panel does not accept this reasoning by the ALJ. The Panel
does not find credible Dr. Abassi’s testimony concerning the alleged death certificate, but the

panel does so without taking as a negative inference the fact that Dr. Abassi did not call a
witness to corroborate his testimony.
 

medical condition. And, after the patient reported Dr. Abassi to the Hospital, Dr. Abassi again
contacted the patient, this time asking the patient to give the Hospital false information.

The dishonesty and poor judgment Dr. Abassi has displayed warrants and necessitates the
suspension of his medical license and his enrollment in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program. The Panel adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ. In order to allow Dr. Abassi
time to make arrangements for his patients to be transferred to other physicians, the suspension
will go into effect in 10 business days from the date of this final decision and order.

ORDER

Based upon the findings of fact and conclusion of law, it is, on the affirmative vote of a
majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that Rasheed A. Abassi, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in Maryland
(License Number D65329) is SUSPENDED for ONE YEAR. The one-year suspension goes
into effect in 10 business days; and it is further

ORDERED that within 10 business days, Dr. Abassi shall enroll in the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). Dr. Abassi shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP and shall fully and
timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but
not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, and evaluations as directed by MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Abassi shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested or required by the Board and MPRP. Dr. Abassi shall sign the release/consent forms

to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of
 

any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. Dr. Abassi shall also sign any written
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to exchange information regarding Dr. Abassi with
agents of MPRP (evaluators and treatment providers referred to by MPRP for Dr. Abassi); and it
is further

ORDERED that, within one year, Dr. Abassi shall successfully complete a Board
disciplinary panel-approved course in medical ethics. The course may not be used to fulfill the
continuing medical education credits required for license renewal. Dr. Abassi must provide
documentation to the Board that he successfully completed the course; and it is further

ORDERED that, upon the termination of the suspension, Dr. Abassi will be placed on
PROBATION for a minimum period of THREE YEARS; ’ and it is further

ORDERED that, during the probationary period, Dr. Abassi shall comply with all of the
following probationary terms and conditions:

1, Dr. Abassi shall continue participation in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). Dr. Abassi shall continue his Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. Dr. Abassi shall fully and timely
cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not
limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply

with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screening as directed by MPRP;

7 The suspension will not be terminated if Dr. Abassi fails to renew his license. If Dr. Abassi’s
license expires while the license is suspended, the suspension period will be tolled. If Dr. Abassi
fails to renew his license while he is on probation, the probationary period and any conditions of
probation will be tolled.
