IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

VITALIS O. OJIEGBE, M.D., * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D65418 * Case Number: 7715-0065B

* * * * * x * * * * x * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

 

INTRODUCTION

On April 30, 2018, Vitalis O. Ojiegbe, M.D. was charged under the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (“Act”) with unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; willfully making or
filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine; failing to meet appropriate standards
for the delivery of quality medical care; failing to comply with the provisions of the Maryland
Pharmacy Act, Health Occupations Article § 12-102; willfully making a false representation
when seeking or making application for licensure or any other application related to the practice
of medicine; and failing to keep adequate medical records. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
(“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (11), (22), (28), (36), and (40). Dr. Ojiegbe was also charged
with violating the March 12, 2015 Consent Order he entered into with Disciplinary Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (“Board”).

The case was forwarded to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for an
evidentiary hearing and a proposed decision. The hearing was held before an Administrative
Law Judge (“ALJ”) at OAH on January 29, 2019. Due to the significant stipulations of facts and
evidence not in dispute, the State did not call any witnesses and presented its case solely through

oral argument. Dr. Ojiegbe testified but did not present any other witnesses.
On April 22, 2019, the ALJ issued a proposed decision concluding that Dr. Ojiegbe
engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; failed to meet appropriate
standards for the delivery of quality medical care; failed to comply with the provisions of the
Maryland Pharmacy Act, Health Occupations Article § 12-102; and failed to keep adequate
medical records. See Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (22), (28), and (40). The ALJ also found
that Dr. Ojiegbe failed to comply with a condition of the March 12, 2015 Consent Order by
failing to comply with the provisions of the Act. The ALJ determined that Dr. Ojiegbe did not
willfully make or file a false report or record in the practice of medicine or willfully make a false
representation when seeking or making application for licensure or any other application related
to the practice of medicine. See Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11) and (36).

The ALJ proposed a sanction of a six-month suspension followed by a period of
probation with conditions to be decided by the disciplinary panel should the suspension be
terminated, The ALJ also recommended that Dr. Ojiegbe be permanently prohibited from
dispensing medications out of his office and that he be required to undergo an evaluation by the
Center for Personalized Education for Professionals to determine whether he can safely return to
the practice of medicine.

Dr. Ojiegbe filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision, and the State filed a
response. On September 11, 2019, both parties appeared before Board Disciplinary Panel A
(“Panel A” or the “Panel”) for an oral exceptions hearing.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A adopts the stipulations of facts and evidence not in dispute, paragraph numbers

1-10, as well as the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact, paragraph numbers 1-10. See ALJ proposed

decision, attached as Exhibit 1. These facts are incorporated by reference into the body of this
 

Testimony
Due to the significant Stipulations of Facts and Evidence not in dispute, the State
presented its case solely through oral argument. The Respondent testified and did not present

other witnesses.

STIPULATIONS OF FACTS AND EVIDENCE NOT IN DISPUTE!

1, Joint Exhibits 1 through 19” are admitted without objection, with the exception of
certain sections of Joint Exhibit 14 (August 29, 2017 — Board Investigator’s Investigative Report).

2. Paragraphs | through 3 of the April 30, 2018 Charges Under the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (“Charges” hereinafter) are not in dispute.

3. ‘The Respondent completed the required coursework in pain management,
bariatric medicine, and recordkeeping to the satisfaction of the Board.

4. The Respondent obtained a practice monitor, obtained the approval of the Board
for such a practice monitor, and satisfied all conditions in the 2015 Consent Order as it related to

the practice monitor.

5. Paragraphs 4 through 6 of the Charges are not in dispute.
6. Paragraph 9 of the Charges are not in dispute.
7. Paragraphs 12-18 of the Charges are not in dispute.

 

' With the exception of minor edits for grammatical errors, or for the sake of clarity and consistency with other
portions of this Proposed Decision (for example, substituting references to “Dr. Ojiegbe” with “Respondent”, or
instances where a particular stipulation did not constitute a complete sentence), I have reproduced the stipulations
verbatim as the parties presented them to me.

2 Joint Exhibit 20, the April 30, 2018 Statement of Charges and Notice of Violation of Consent Order, was admitted
at the hearing and thus was not included in the Joint Exhibit List or Joint Stipulations, which were both submitted to
the OAH on January 14, 2019.

} The Respondent objected to the portions of Joint Exhibit 14 which contained any conclusions drawn by the Board
investigator as to whether the Respondent actually committed violations of the Act. I overruled the objection but
advised the parties I would give little weight to the investigator’s conclusions on whether the Respondent committed
violations of the Act as that is the ultimate issue before me and I would be guided in this regard by my own
evaluation of all the evidence in the case.

4
8. The OCSA‘ staff member found and the Respondent does not dispute the fact that
there were deficiencies in the Respondent's dispensing practices as described in the OCSA
Report of February 21, 2017 Inspection.

9. In all cases, the Peer Reviewers found and the Respondent does not dispute the
fact that the Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical
care to his weight loss/bariatric patients and failed to keep adequate medical records as described
in their reports.

10. The Respondent satisfactorily performed all required conditions in his 2015
Consent Order as it related to his pain medicine practice and his prescribing of CDS opioid
medicine. As of today, the Respondent has an unrestricted license. He is in compliance with all
Board requirements related to his pain medicine practice and can write prescriptions for CDS
opioid medicines.

PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

I find the following additional facts by a preponderance of the evidence:

1, The Consent Order contained a provision specifically indicating that if the
Respondent failed to comply with any term or condition of the Consent Order or of the two-year
probationary period, a disciplinary panel of the Board could, after a show cause hearing, impose
further sanctions on the Respondent, including additional probationary terms and conditions, or
reprimand, suspension, or revocation.

2. Under the probationary conditions of the Consent Order, the Respondent was
required to comply with the Medical Practice Act.

3. At the time the Respondent entered into the Consent Order, his practice consisted

of internal medicine, pain management, and weight loss (bariatric) services.

SU

4 Office of Controlled Substance Administration

uw
 

4, At all relevant times, the Respondent held a permit to dispense certain drugs,
including CDS, from his practice.

5. Under Maryland law, the Respondent was authorized to dispense prescription
drugs to his patients at the location of his practice as long as he maintained forms which
contained the following information: a statement indicating a pharmacy was not conveniently
available to the patient; a statement indicating that the determination a pharmacy was not
conveniently available was made solely by the patient; and the patient’s signature and the date.
The form was to be signed by the patient prior to the first time any prescription drugs were
dispensed by the Respondent to the patient.

6. As part of his weight loss practice, the Respondent had access to phentermine and
phendimetrazine, both of which are appetite suppressants and CDS.

7, In his weight loss practice, the Respondent got into the habit of dispensing
prescription drugs to patients who did not have insurance and writing prescriptions for patients
who possessed health insurance.

8. The Respondent had multiple weight loss patients who were unwilling to allow
him to weigh them when they came to their appointments. As a result, the Respondent was often
unable to document their weight gain or loss in their charts.

9. In or around November 2017, and as a result of the difficulty he had with getting
his weight loss patients to cooperate with certain aspects of treatment (including allowing him to
weigh them) and the poor economic benefits of a weight loss practice in the Respondent’s
geographic area, the Respondent wound down and terminated his weight loss practice.

10. Once the Respondent closed the weight loss portion of his medical practice, he

stopped dispensing prescription drugs at the practice location.
DISCUSSION

 

Legal Framework

Section 14-404 of the Medical Practice Act govems the bases on which the Board may
take disciplinary action against a licensed physician. Under the Charges, the Respondent was
cited for allegedly violating scction 14-404, as follows:

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a disciplinary

panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the disciplinary

panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or
revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(11) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
medicine;

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer
review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an
outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this State;

(28) Fails to comply with the provisions of § 12-102 of this article;

(36) Willfully makes a false representation when seeking or making
application for licensure or any other application related to the practice of
medicine;

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate
peer review{.]

Md. Code Ann., Health Occ., § 14-404 (Supp. 2018).
Under the Charges, the Respondent was also cited for violating section 12-102(c) of the
Pharmacy Act, which govems the handling of prescriptions, including the dispensing of
prescriptions, and provides, in pertinent part, as follows:

(2) This title does not prohibit: ;
(ii) A licensed dentist, physician, or podiatrist from personally preparing and
dispensing the dentist’s, physician’s, or podiatrist’s prescriptions when:

4. The dentist, physician, or podiatrist:

A. Complies with the dispensing and labeling requirements of this
{Section 12-505];

B. Records the dispensing of the prescription drug or device on the
patient’s chart;

H. Complies with the child resistant packaging requirements
regarding prescription drugs under Title 22, Subtitle 3 of the Health--
General Article;

J. Maintains biennial inventories and complies with any other
federal and State record-keeping requirements relating to controlled
dangerous substances;

M. Completes ten continuing education credits over a 5-year
period relating to the preparing and dispensing of prescription drugs,
offered by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) or
as approved by the Secretary, in consultation with each respective board of
licensure, as a condition of permit renewall[.]

Ma. Code Ann., Health Occ. §.12-102(c)(2)(ii)(4) (Supp. 2018).
The penalties for violations of the Pharmacy Act are governed by section 12-102(m), as

follows:

(m) A dentist, physician, or podiatrist who fails to comply with the provisions of
this section governing the dispensing of prescription drugs or devices shall:

(1) Have the dispensing permit revoked; and

(2) Be subject 1o disciplinary actions by the appropriate licensing board.

Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 12-102(m) (Supp. 2018).
The Charges also cite section 12-505 of the Pharmacy Act, which governs the labeling of
prescription drugs and devices, and provides the parameters under which a physician may
dispense thein, as follows:

(a) Except for a drug or device dispensed to an inpatient in a hospital or related
institution, each container of a drug or device dispensed shall be labeled in
accordance with this section.

(d)(1) Except as provided in this subsection, if an authorized prescriber dispenses
a drug or device, the prescriber shall label each container of the drug or device.

(2) In addition to any other information required by law, the authorized prescriber
shall include on the label:

(i) The name and strength of the drug or device;

(ii) The date the prescription is dispensed;

(iii) An expiration date of the drug or device which shall be the lesser of:

1. 1 year from the date of dispensing;

2. The month and year when the drug or device expires; or

3. A shorter period as determined by the authorized prescriber; and

(iv) Any appropriate special handling instructions regarding proper storage

of the drug or device.

Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. §§ 12-505 (a), (d) (2014).

The Respondent was further eited for violating section 22-311 of the Health General
Article (2015), which governs the packaging of substances which are dispensed via prescription
and provides as follows:

A dangerous household substance dispensed under the prescription of an
authorized prescriber may be provided in a package that does not meet the child
resistant packaging standards adopted under this subtitle if the noncomplying
package is:

(1) Required by the prescription; or

(2) Requested by the purchaser.

Additionally, under section 21-2A-03 of the Health General Article (Supp. 2018), entities
with dispensing privileges are required to submit certain data, as follows:

(c) Except as provided in subsection (d)° of this section, each dispenser shall
submit prescription monitoring data to the [Prescription Drug Monitoring
re
5 Section (d) authorizes the Secretary of the Maryland Department of Health to require the submission of the reports
through means other than electronically, Md, Code Ann., Health Gen. § 21-2A-03(d) (Supp. 2018).

9
Program] by electronic means, in accordance with regulations adopted by the
Secretary.

In addition to these statutory provisions, the. Maryland Department of Health has also
promulgated regulations to govern the dispensing, reporting, and storage of prescription drugs

and devices. COMAR 10.13.01.04 imposes dispensing requirements in pertinent part as follows:

E. A licensee shall comply with the labeling requirements set forth in Health
Occupations Article, §12-505, Annotated Code of Maryland.

F. A licensee shall comply with the child resistant packaging requirements set
forth in Health-General Article, Title 22, Subtitle 3, Annotated Code of Maryland.

H. A licensee shall record the dispensing of the prescription drug on the patient’s
chart.

J. A licensee shall, except for starter dosages or samples provided without charge,
provide the patient with a written prescription.

_L. A licensee shall maintain biennial inventories of all stocks of controlled

substances.
M. A licensee shall dispense prescription drugs to a patient only when the patient
determines that a pharmacy is not conveniently available to the patient.
N. In each patient’s chart for each patient to whom prescription drugs are
dispensed or in a format readily retrievable, a licensee shall maintain a single
form which:

(1) Indicates that a pharmacy is not conveniently available to the patient;

(2) States that the determination that a pharmacy is not conveniently available
was made solely by the paticnt; and

(3) Is signed and dated by the patient before dispensing prescription drugs to
the patient for the first time.

Under COMAR 10.47.07.03A, a licensee has certain obligations related to dispenser
reporting, as follows:

A. For each monitored prescription drug dispensed, the dispenser shall report
the following prescription monitoring data to the Department:
(1) Identifying information for the prescription issued and drug dispensed,
including:
(a) Prescription number;
(b) Date prescription was issued;

10
(c) Date prescription was filled;

(d) Whether the prescription was new or a refill;
(ec) Number of refills ordered;

(f) Sources of payment;

(g) National Drug Code for dispensed drug;

(h) Metric quantity of drug dispensed; and

(i) Days’ supply of drug dispensed;

(2) Identifying information for the patient, including:
(a) Last name;
(b) First name;
(c) Date of birth;
(d) Sex;
(e) Telephone number, if the patient has one; :
(f) Address, including residential house or building number, apartment
number, strect name, state, and zip code; and
(g) A patient identification number, which may include:
(i) A state-issued driver’s license or identification card number;
(ii) An insurance or third-party payer identification number,
(iii) A passport identification number;
(iv) An employer-issued identification card number;
(v) A student identification card number;
(vi) A United States Permanent Resident Card identification number; or
(vii) A patient or customer identification number generated by the
dispenser’s record management system;

(3) Identifying information for the prescriber, including:
(a) A valid Drug Enforcement Administration registration number; and
(b) Last name; and

(4) Identifying information for the dispenser, including a valid Drug
Enforcement Administration registration number.

Finally, COMAR 10.19.03.12 governs the steps which must be taken by entities with
dispensing privileges to keep prescription drugs/devices and CDS secure, as follows:
A. General.
(1) All applicants and registrants shall provide effective controls and
procedures to guard against theft and unlawful diversion of controlled substances.
In order to determine whether a registrant or applicant has provided protective

controls against theft and unlawful diversion, the Department shall use the
security requirements set forth in §B of this regulation ...
B. Security Controls for Registrants.
(2) Controlled dangerous substances listed in Schedules II, III, IV, and V shall

be stored in a securely locked, substantially constructed cabinet.
Burden of Proof

The burden of proof is by a preponderance of the evidence and rests with the State. To
prove something by a “preponderance of the evidence” means “to prove that something is more
likely so than not so” when all of the evidence is considered. Coleman v. Anne Arundel Cty.
Police Dep't, 369 Md. 108, 125 n.16 (2002). Under this standard, if the supporting and opposing
evidence is evenly balanced on an issue, the finding on that issue must be against the party who
bears the burden of proof. /d. For the reasons articulated below, with two exceptions to be
discussed, I find the State has satisfied its burden of proof to demonstrate the Respondent
violated the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions and, as a result, he is appropriately
subject to the imposition of sanctions.
The Merits of the Case
Arguments of the Parties

The State argued the evidence demonstrates two main problem areas of the Respondent's
conduct: (i) his dispensing practices; and (ii) his provision of appropriate medical care to several
weight loss patients, including failure to maintain adequate medical records about his treatment
of the patients. With respect to dispensing practices, the State expressed concern about the
Respondent’s repeated failure to keep detailed records which demonstrated his patients’
awareness they were not required to have their medications dispensed by him at his practice
location. The Respondent also repeatedly failed to document in his records and the patients”
charts that hey chose to have him dispense their prescription medication because it was the most

convenient for the patients. The Respondent further had a habit of giving prescription

12
medications to his patients in plain white envelopes rather than in child-resistant packaging, such
as standard-issue pill bottles. When the Respondent dispensed medication in this manner, he
frequently failed to document in his records whether the patients asked him to do so or otherwise
declined child-resistant packaging, The OCSA inspector also noted several deficiencies in the
Respondent’s record-keeping and reporting related to his dispensing practices and his handling
of prescription drugs and CDS. (See Joint Exs. 5, 6.)

The State argued the Respondent continued to have problems with his dispensing practice
because he was not familiar with the statutory and regulatory requirements for entities with
dispensing privileges. According to the State, there were several times during the OCSA
inspector's site visit on February 21, 2017 where the Respondent expressed surprise about
various requirements, such as performing a biennial count of on-hand CDS, providing written
prescriptions to his patients, and properly labeling the containers in whieh drugs were dispensed,
to give some examples. (Joint Ex. 6, pp. 36-37.) The State argued the Respondent’s
demonstrated lack of familiarity with statutory and regulatory dispensing requirements supports
a finding that he willfully made a false statement, in violation of the Medical Practice Act, when
applying for his dispensing permit.

In addition to the significant deficiencies in the Respondent’s dispensing practices and
record-keeping, the State also noted the Respondent's provision of medieal care to his weight
loss patients fell below the standards of care, as determined by two peer reviewers who assessed
the Respondent’s records. The peer reviewers looked at the records for six of the Respondent’s
weight loss paticnts, as well as the Respondent’s written summary of each patient’s care.
Among the deficiencies noted by the reviewers were the following:

© Failure to document patients’ weights in their chart, which makes actual weight

management nearly impossible

e Failure to alter, ccase, or re-evaluate patients’ treatment regimens when patients
gained weight
document as if set forth in full. Neither party filed exceptions to any of the factual findings, and
the factual findings were proved by a preponderance of the evidence. The Panel also adopts the
ALJ’s discussion set forth on pages 7-19 of the proposed decision. Neither party filed exceptions
to any of the ALJ’s discussion or the proposed conclusions of law.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

The Panel adopts the ALJ’s proposed conclusions of law. The Panel finds that Dr.
Ojiegbe is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; failed to meet
appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care; failed to comply with the
provisions of the Maryland Pharmacy Act, Health Occupations Article § 12-102, and related
statutes and regulations regarding the dispensing and packaging requirements for prescription
drugs; and failed to keep adequate medical records. See Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (22),
(28), and (40). The Panel also concludes that Dr. Ojiegbe violated the March 12, 2015 Consent
Order. The Panel dismisses the charges of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11) and (36).

EXCEPTION/SANCTION

Dr. Ojiegbe does not take exception to any of the proposed factual findings, discussion,
or conclusions of law in the ALJ’s proposed decision, but does take exception to the ALIJ’s
recommended sanction. Dr. Ojiegbe argues that the Panel should not suspend his license and
should instead place him on a period of probation for one to two years with appropriate terms
and conditions.

The State responds that the ALJ’s recommended sanction is appropriate given Dr.
Ojiegbe’s past disciplinary history with the Board and his inability to remediate his pattern of
misconduct despite the Board’s efforts through previous discipline. The State contends that the

ALI’s recommended sanction of a six-month suspension with the condition that Dr. Ojiegbe be
© Failure to alter, ccase, or re-evaluate patients” treatment regimens when patients
weights were not recorded despite months of treatment

e Failure to discuss or record discussions of activity and nutrition goals

e Failure to perform or record physical examinations of patients, even when prescribing
appetite suppressants or other drugs

* Failure to order or maintain lab tests as a means of investigating whether there were

co-morbid conditions which were related to or had an impact on patients’ weight
condition
Goint Ex. 15, 16.)

The State further noted that at all relevant times, the Respondent was subject to the
Consent Order. The allegations which resulted in the issuance of the Charges are both a
violation of the terms of the Consent Order and their own, separate violations under the Medical
Practice Act and the Pharmacy Act. The State was concemed by the similarity between the
violations specified in the Charges and the violations which resulted in the Consent Order. The
Respondent had already been sanctioned for deficiencies related to his dispensing practices and
in his provision of appropriate medical care to his patients. According to the State, it is troubling
the Respondent continued to experience the same problems in his medical practice. The State
urged me to consider recommending progressive disciplinary action against the Respondent in
light of the fact he did not significantly improve either his dispensing habits or his provision of
medical care between the issuance of the Consent Order and the issuance of the Charges. A
recommendation for progressive discipline (i.¢., the imposition of something above a reprimand) .
is not punitive, according to the State, but rather is designed to effectuate the Board’s goal:
maintaining public safety and welfare.

The State made the following sanctioning recommendations: (i) the Respondent be
permanently prohibited from dispensing any medications out of his office; (ii) the Respondent be
subject to a six-month suspension, commencing sixty (60) days after the date of any issued order to
give him the opportunity to close out his practice; (iii) he be required to undergo an evaluation by

the Center for Personalized Education for Professionals (CPEP) to determine whether he can safely

14
 

return to the practice of medicine; (iv) after serving the period of suspension, he may petition the
Board for a termination of the suspension; and (v) should the Board determine the suspension
should be terminated, the Respondent shall abide by any conditions imposed by the Board for his
return to the practice of medicine, including the imposition of any period of probation.

The Respondent acknowledged being the subject of previous discipline by the Board,
which resulted in the Consent Order. He does not contest the findings and statements made in
the peer review reports related to his conduct in his weight loss practice. According to the
Respondent, he had a very challenging patient mix, and his patients would often refuse to let him
weigh them. Asa result of the difficulty he had in managing the patients in the weight loss
practice, he wound down that portion of his practice in or around November 2017 and re-focused
his attention on providing primary medicine care.

The Respondent conceded he is in violation of the Consent Order because he violated the
Medical Practice Act in how he handled his weight loss patients, as described by the peer
reviewers in their October 25, 2017 reports (Joint Exs. 15, 16). The Respondent further
conceded the dispensing deficiencies noted by the OCSA inspector in the February 21, 2017
inspection report and associated narrative memorandum (Joint Exs. 5, 6), and that those
deficiencies amounted to violations of the Medical Practice and Pharmacy Acts.

Although the Respondent largely conceded to the violations cited in the Charges and
argued by the State, he took issue with two allegations of misconduct. First, he disputed that he
failed to comply with the continuing medical education (CME) requirement under section
12-102(c)(2)(4i)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy Act Under that provision, a physician has five years to
record ten hours of CME eredits on dispensing, once the physician is licensed to dispense.

According to the Respondent, he obtained his dispensing license in May 2013° so he could

 

6 The Permit to Dispense Prescription Drugs was issued on May 13, 2013 and expired on May 12, 2018. (Joint Ex.
1, p.2.)

15
prescribe weight loss medications. He shut down his weight loss practice in or around November
2017. He argued he was not yet in violation of section 12-102(c)(2)(ii)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy Act
at the time the Charges were issued because he had not held the dispensing permit for five years;
he still had time to comply with the requirement to obtain the ten CME credits. The Respondent
urged me to recommend the dismissal of any charge related to his alleged failure to obtain the
required CME credits. Additionally, he noted he does not intend to revive his weight loss practice,
so he would not dispense prescription medications from his practice location.

The Respondent further disputed the assertion by the State and included in the Charges
that he made any willful false statements in applying for his dispensing permit. The Respondent
testified that at the time he applied for the permit, he was given information related to the
statutory and regulatory requirements for dispensing, including the reporting and record-keeping
requirements. He argued it is absurd for the State to argue that because he may have forgotten
some of the requirements or did not strictly adhere to them it meant he made willful
misrepresentations six years ago, when he first applied for and obtained the dispensing permit.
The inability to retain legal requirements in one’s memory with perfect clarity after a few years
is not, according to the Respondent, the equivalent of or even similar to a willful
misrepresentation of one’s knowledge at the time of signing an application. The Respondent
urged me to recommend the dismissal of any charge related to his alleged willful making of false
statements in applying for the dispensing permit.

Finally, the Respondent noted he was always cooperative with the Board’s inspections
and investigation requests, and there has been no allegation of any patient being harmed as a
result of the Respondent’s conduct. He argued a six-month suspension is too harsh a sanction
when he has closed down the portion of his business with which he continued to have

trouble — the weight loss practice — and has no intention of reviving it. The Respondent made

16
the following sanction recommendation: (i) a two-year period of probation, during which the
Respondent would be subject to whatever conditions the Board deemed appropriate and during
which the Board could conduct at-will inspections as it deemed appropriate; (ii) the Respondent
be assigned a practice monitor for the period of probation; and (iii) the Respondent be required to
attend a Board-approved course on medical record keeping.
Analysis

With the exception of the allegations related to willfully making false statenients and
willfully filing a false report or record, and failing to obtain the required CME credits, the
Respondent stipulated to the allegations in the Charges and contained in the State’s supporting
documentary evidence. The primary issue before me is one of the appropriate sanction given the
facts of the case. I will first address the areas of dispute and then discuss a sanctioning
recommendation.

Failure to Obtain Required CME Credits

As noted above, section 12-102(c)(2)(4i)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy Act imposes a duty on
licensed physicians who also have dispensing authority to complete ten hours of CME credits
within the five years the dispensing permit is active. Here, the Respondent’s dispensing permit
was issued on May 13, 2013 and was set to expire on May 12, 2018. The bulk of the Board’s
investigation took place between February 21, 2017 (the date on which the OCSA inspector
conducted a cite visit and issued her inspection report) and November 20, 2017 (the date on which
the Board investigator issued a final report; see Joint Ex. 18). The Charges were issued on April
30, 2018. Asa practical matter, at the time the charges were issued, the Respondent could not
have been in violation of section 12-102(c)(2)Gi)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy Act. A reading of the
statute on its face demonstrates the earliest possible date on which the Respondent could be in

Violation was the last date on which the dispensing permit was effective - May 12, 2018. While

17
it may seem unlikely the Respondent could earn ten CME credits in twelve days, the fact of the
matter is that at the time the Board issued the Charges, the Respondent was not yet in violation of
the CME requirement. I decline to find the Respondent violated section 12-102(c)(2)(i)(4)(M)
of the Pharmacy Act .

Willful Making of a False Record or Report and Willful Making of a False Representation
When Seeking a License

Under section 14-404(a)(11) of the Medical Practice Act, the Board is authorized to
discipline a physician who willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
medicine, Section 14-404(a)(36) authorizes discipline when a physician willfully makes a false
representation when seeking or making application for licensure or other application related to
the practice of medicine. The State argued the Respondent violated these provisions of the
Medical Practice Act when, on April 26, 2013, he signed the attestation on the Application for
Physician’s Permit to Dispense Prescription Drugs. The attestation states as follows: “I am
thoroughly familiar with the statutes and regulations which govern physician dispensing of ,
prescription drugs, including Health Occupations Article §§ 12-102, 12-505, and 12-604 ... and
[COMAR] 10.3.01, 10.19.03.04, 10.19.03.05, and 10.19.03.07.” (Joint Ex. 1, p. 1.)

According to the State, when the OCSA inspector conducted her site visit on February
21, 2017, there were several requirements related to dispensing with which the Respondent
seemed unfamiliar. Additionally, during the Board’s investigation, there were a number of times
when the Respondent conceded he was not familiar with the statutes and regulations related to
the dispensing of prescription medication. (Joint Exs. 7, 8, 12.) The State took the position that
because the Respondent admitted he was unaware of the statutory and regulatory dispensing
requirements during the investigation, it was more likely than not he was unaware of the

requirements at the time he signed the dispensing permit application on April 26, 2013.
1 am not persuaded by the State’s argument. The Respondent testified, without
contradiction, he familiarized himself with the applicable statutes and regulations at the time he
applied for the dispensing permit. The Respondent's incomplete recall of the regulations in 2017
does not mean that in April 20/3 he was unfamiliar with the regulations. It is not reasonable to
assume that because someone does not know or remember a fact in one given year it means the
person mever knew the fact in the first place. When something is done “willfully,” it is done
deliberately or intentionally.’ For me to find the Respondent violated sections 14-404(a)(11) and
(36) of the Medical Practice Act , the State has to demonstrate it is more likely than not that on
April 26, 2013 the Respondent was unfamiliar with the applicable statutes and regulations related
to dispensing prescription drugs. The State’s argument here amounts to retroactive pleading, i.c.,
“Because the Respondent did not know Thing A in 2017, he also did not know Thing A in 2013.”
The State produced no evidence to support the argument, particularly given the Respondent’s
testimony that he did review the statutes, regulations, and information sheet provided to him by the
Board at the timc he signed the application, I decline to find the Respondent violated sections
14-404(a)(11) and (36) of the Medical Practice Act .

Sanctioning Recommendation

Although I decline to find the Respondent violated section 12-102(c)(2)(ii)(4)(M) of the
Pharmacy Act and sections 14-404(a)(11) and (36) of the Medical Practice Act, I find the State
has satisfied its burden as to the remaining violations cited in the Charges. The Respondent
stipulated to the remaining violations. The remaining issue before me is the appropriate sanction.
As noted above, the State recommended a six-month suspension and further conditions. The

Respondent recommended a two-year period of probation and further conditions.

 

TeDefinition of Willful,” MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARY, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/willful,
(last accessed, April 19, 2019).

19
The guiding regulation in this matter, found at COMAR 10.32.02.09B, provides in

pertinent part as follows:

 

B. Aggravating and Mitigating Factors.

(1) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each case, and to the extent
that the facts and circumstances apply, the disciplinary panel may consider the
aggravating and mitigating factors set out in §B(5) and (6) of this regulation
and may in its diseretion determine, based on those factors, that an exception
should be made and that the sanction in a particular case should fall outside the
range of sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

(5) Mitigating factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) The absence of a prior disciplinary record;

(b) The offender self-reported the incident;

(c) The offender voluntarily admitted the misconduct, made full disclosure to
the disciplinary panel and was cooperative during the disciplinary panel
proceedings;

(d) The offender implemented remedial measures to correct or mitigate the
harm arising from the misconduct,

(e) The offender made good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify the
consequences of the misconduct;

(f) The offender has been rehabilitated or exhibits rehabilitative potential;

(g) The misconduct was not premeditated;

(h) There was no potential harin to patients or the public or other adverse
impact; or

(i) The incident was isolated and is not likely to recur.

(6) Aggravating factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) The offender has a previous criminal or administrative disciplinary history;
(b) The offense was committed deliberately or with gross negligence or
recklessness; .

(c) The offense had the potential for or actually did cause patient harm;

(d) The offense was part of a pattern of detrimental conduct;

(e) The offender committed a combination of factually discrete offenses
adjudicated in a single action;

(£) The offender pursued his or her financial gain over the patient’s welfare;

(g) The patient was especially vulnerable,

(h) The offendcr attempted to hide the error or misconduct from patients or
others;

(i) The offender concealed, falsified or destroyed evidence, or presented false
testimony or evidence;

(j) The offender did not cooperate with the investigation; or

(k) Previous attempts to rehabilitate the offender were unsuccessful.

20
The State argued the existence of a significant aggravating factor, namely, the
Respondent's prior disciplinary history. Additionally, the State argucd the Respondent’s
disciplinary history demonstrates the Board gave him the opportunity to improve and remediate
the problems with his dispensing habits and his weight loss practice and he was not able to do so.
Based on the record before me, I find the State’s sanctioning recommendation to be appropriate.

While I do not believe the Respondent acted with malign intent, I do find it troubling that
he was not able to remediate the deficiencies in his dispensing habits and his weight loss practice
between March 2015 and February 2017. This is particularly concerning given that under the
Consent Order the Respondent was required to successfully complete Board-approved courses
focused on proper medical record keeping (which necessarily includes dispensary record
keeping) and on weight management medicine. Despite the additional remedial training, the
Respondent continued to have difficulty in these two areas of his medical practice. Given the
Respondent's prior disciplinary history and his likely awareness of the seriousness with which
licensees are expected to take the Board’s orders, | do not find any significant mitigating factor
that makes the Respondent’s continued practice deficiencies in any way excusable. | recommend
the Board adopt the State’s sanctioning recommendations in their entirety.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the Stipulations, Findings of Fact, and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of
law:

1, The Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(3) of the Medical Practice Act by
engaging in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

2, The Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(22) of the Medical Practice Act by

failing to meet appropriate standards of care for the delivery of medical and surgieal care;

21
3. The Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(28) of the Medical Practice Act by
failing to comply with the provisions of section 12-102 of the Pharmacy Act;

. 4: The Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(40) of the Medical Practice Act by
failing to keep adequate medical records;

5. The Respondent engaged in violations under sections 12-202 and 12-205 of the
Pharmacy Act related to the dispensing, maintenance, labeling, and record keeping for
prescription drugs or devices; .

6. The Respondent engaged in violations under section 22-311 of the Health Genera}
Article related to the packaging of dangerous household substances dispensed under prescription;

7. The Respondent engaged in violations under section 21-21-03 of the Health
General Article related to prescription monitoring data;

8. The Respondent engaged in violations of COMAR 10.13.01.04 related to the
dispensing requirements for prescription drugs;

9. The Respondent engaged in violations of COMAR 10.47.07.03 related to
dispenser reporting requirements for prescription drugs;

10. The Respondent engaged in violations of COMAR 10.19.03.12 related to physical
security controls for CDS;

11. The Respondent failed to comply with the Consent Order by failing to comply
with provisions of the Medical Practice Act;

12. The Respondent did not violate section 14-404(a)(11) of the Medical Practice Act
by willfully making or filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine;

13. The Respondent did not violate section 14-404(a)(36) of the Medical Practice Act
by willfully making a false representation when seeking or making application for licensure or

other application related to the practice of medicine;

22
14. The Respondent did not violate section 12-102(c)(2)(ii)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy
Act by failing to meet the CME requirement; and

15. A six-month suspension and additional conditions, as recommended by the State,
is the appropriate sanction under section 14-404(a) of the Medical Practice Act and COMAR
10.32.02.09A(3)(iii).

PROPROSED DISPOSITION

I PROPOSE the Apri! 30, 2018 charges filed by the Maryland State Board of Physicians
against the Respondent be UPHELD.

I further PROPOSE the Respondent: (i) be subject to a six-month suspension,
commencing sixty (60) days after the date of any Board-issued order to give him the opportunity
to close out his practice; (ii) be permanently prohibited from dispensing any medications out of
his office; (iii) be required to undergo an evaluation by the Center for Personalized Education for
Professionals to determine whether he can safely return to the practice of medicine; (iv) may
petition the Board for a termination of the suspension after he has served the period of
suspension; and (v) shall abide by any conditions imposed by the Board for his return to the
practice of medicine, including the imposition of any period of probation, should the Board

determine the suspension should be terminated.

 

April 22, 2019 Llane OE. L6G

Date Decision Mailed <—~ Latonya By/Pargan “ fi
Administ‘ative Law Judge oa

LBD/emg ™_ FY. a A

#179331 . Lee

23
evaluated by the Center for Personalized Education for Professionals (“CPEP”) to determine
whether he is safe to return to the practice of medicine is a fair sanction that protects the public
and allows Dr. Ojiegbe to return to the practice of medicine when he is safe to do so.

The Panel agrees that a six-month suspension, which includes an evaluation by CPEP to
determine whether Dr. Ojiegbe can safely practice medicine is appropriate. Dr. Ojiegbe’s
exception is denied.

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that Vitalis ©. Ojiegbe, M.D.’s license to practice medicine is
SUSPENDED! for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS” and until he successfully completes an
evaluation by CPEP in order for Panel A to determine whether he can safely return to the
practice of medicine; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Ojiegbe shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it is

further

 

' (a) During the suspension period, Dr. Ojiegbe shall not:
(1) practice medicine;
(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the public as a current
provider of medical services;
(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Ojiegbe’s name or provider number by any health care
practice or any other licensee or heaith care provider;
(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the state;
(5) dispense medications; or
(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

(b) Dr. Ojiegbe shall establish and implement a procedure by which Dr. Ojiegbe’s patients may obtain their medical
records without undue burden and notify all patients of that procedure.

2 Dr. Ojiegbe’s license expired on September 30, 2019. Pursuant to section 14-403 of the Health Occupations
Asticle, the license of an individual regulated by the Board may not “lapse by operation of law while the individual
is under investigation or while charges are pending.” The charges in this case were issued before the expiration of
Dr, Ojiegbe’s license. Therefore, by operation of law, Dr. Ojiegbe’s license did not expire during these proceedings.
The period of the suspension and any conditions will be tolled, however, until Dr. Ojiegbe administratively
reinstates his license. See COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).

4
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO FILE EXCEPTIONS

Any party adversely affected by this proposed decision may file written exceptions with
the disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicians that delegated the captioned
case to the Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH), and request a hearing on the exceptions.
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-216(a) (2014); COMAR 10.32.02.05. Exceptions must be
filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of issuance of this proposed order. COMAR
10.32.02.05B(1). The exceptions and request for hearing must be addressed to the Disciplinary
Panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, Attn:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director.

A copy of the exceptions should be mailed to the opposing attomey, and the other party
will have fifteen (15) days from the filing of exceptions to file a written response addressed as
above. Jd. The disciplinary panel will issue a final order following the exceptions hearing or
other formal panel proceedings. Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-216, 10-221 (2014),
COMAR 10.32.02.05C.

The OAH is not a party to any review process.

Copies Mailed To:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director Kevin A. Dunne, Esquire
Compliance Administration Baker Donelson

Maryland Board of Physicians 100 Light Street, 19" Floor
4201 Patterson Avenue Baltimore, MD 21202

Baltimore, MD 21215
Vitalis O. Ojiegbe, MD
Christopher B. Anderson
Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor

Health Occupations Prosecution Nicholas Johansson, Principal Counsel
and Litigation Division Health Oceupations Prosecution

Office of the Attorney General and Litigation Division

300 West Preston Street, Room 201 Office of the Attorney General

Baltimore, MD 21201 300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201
Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer
Health Occupations Prosecution
and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General
300 West Preston Street, Room 201
Baltimore, MD 21201

24
ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Order has
passed, Dr. Ojiegbe has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions for the
suspension, and Panel A has received the report from CPEP, Dr. Ojiegbe may submit a written
petition to Panel A for termination of the suspension. Dr. Ojiegbe may be required to appear
before Panel A to discuss his petition for termination. If Panel A determines that it is safe for Dr.
Ojiegbe to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be terminated through an order
of Panel A, and Panel A may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on Dr.
Ojiegbe’s return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation. If Panel A determines that
it is not safe for Dr. Ojiegbe to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be
continued through an order of Panel A for a length of time determined by Panel A, and Panel A
panel may impose any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Ojiegbe is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee signs
the Order on behalf of Panel A which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Order; and it
is further

ORDERED that the probation imposed in the March 12, 2015 Consent Order is
terminated as moot; and it is further

ORDERED that the reprimand imposed in the March 12, 2015 Consent Order remains in

effect; and it is further
ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

fos [2014 Signature on File

Christine A. Farrell¥, Ekecutivé Director ()
Maryland State Board of Physi¢ians

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Ojiegbe has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover
letter accompanying this Final Decision and Order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any
petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act,
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of
Procedure.

If Dr. Ojiegbe files a Petition for Judicial Review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any Petition for Judicial Review should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at
the following address:

Stacey M. Darin, Assistant Attorney General
Office of the Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
Exhibit 1
MARYLAND STATE * BEFORE LATONYA B. DARGAN,

BOARD OF PHYSICIANS * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE

. * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE
VITALIS O. OJIEGBE, M.D., * OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

RESPONDENT * OAH No.: MDH-MBPI1-71-18-37328

LICENSE No.: D65418 * MBP No.: 7715-0065B
Pe

PROPOSED DECISION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

STIPULATIONS OF FACT AND EVIDENCE NOT IN DISPUTE
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
DISCUSSION
PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

 

On April 30, 2018, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (Board) issued charges
against Vitalis O. Ojiegbe, M.D. (Respondent), for alleged violations of the State law governing
the practice of medicine under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (Medical Practice Act) and
associated provisions under the Maryland Pharmacy Act (Pharmacy Act). Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 12-101 ef seq. and 14-101 ef seq. (2014 & Supp. 2018). The Board additionally
charged the Respondent with alleged violations of the Maryland Health General Article. Md.
Code Ann., Health ~ Gen, §§ 21-101 ef seg. and 22-101 ef seg. (2015 & Supp. 201 8). The
Respondent was further charged with allegedly violating the provisions of a March 12, 2015
Consent Order (Consent Order). The disciplinary panel to which the matter was assigned held a
meeting with the Respondent on July 25, 2018 to explore the possibility of resolution. The

parties did not resolve the issucs at that time.
On November 30, 2018, the Board delegated the matter to the Office of Administrative
Hearings (OAH) for a hearing on the charges. The Board further delegated to the OAH the
authority to issue Proposed Findings of Fact, Proposed Conclusion(s) of Law, and a Proposed
Disposition. Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.02.03E(5); COMAR
10.32.02.04B(1).

OnJ anuary 29, 2019, 1 conducted a hearing at OAH headquarters in Hunt Valley, Maryland.
Health Occ. § 14-405(a) (Supp. 2018); COMAR 10.32.02.04. Christopher B. Anderson, Assistant
Attorney General and Administrative Prosecutor, represented the State of Maryland (State). Kevin
A. Dunne, Esquire, represented the Respondent, who was also present.

The contested case provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings
Before the Board, and the Rules of Procedure of the OAH govern procedure. Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2014 & Supp. 2018); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.

ISSUES

1. Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(3) of the Medical Practice Act by
engaging in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

2. Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(11) of the Medical Practice Act by
willfully making or filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine;

3. Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(22) of the Medical Practice Act by
failing to meet appropriate standards of care for the delivery of medical and surgical care;

4. Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(28) of the Medical Practice Act by
failing to comply with the provisions of section 12-102 of the Pharmacy Act;

5. Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(36) of the Medical Practice Act by
willfally making a false representation when seeking or making application for licensure or other

application related to the practice of medicine;
6. Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(40) of the Medical Practice Act by
failing to keep adequate medical records;

7. Did the Respondent violate the Pharmacy Act section 12-102(c)(2)(ii)(4)(M) by
failing to meet the CME requirement,

8. Did the Respondent engage in violations under sections 12-102 and 12-205 of the
Pharmacy Act related to the dispensing, maintenance, labeling, and record keeping for prescription
drugs or devices;

9, Did the Respondent engage in violations under Health General Article section
22-311 related to the packaging of dangerous household substances dispensed under prescription;

10. Did the Respondent engage in violations under Health General Article section
21-21-03 related to prescription monitoring data;

11. Did the Respondent engage in violations of COMAR 10.13.01.04 related to
dispensing requirements for prescription drugs;

12, Did the Respondent engage in violations of COMAR 10.47.07.03 related to
dispenser reporting requirements for prescription drugs;

13, Did the Respondent engage in violations of COMAR 10.19.03.12 related to
physical security controls for controlled dangerous substances (CDS);

14. Did the Respondent fail to comply with any term or condition of the Consent
Order; and, if so

15. What is the appropriate sanction?

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

 

Exhibits

A complete exhibit list is attached as an appendix.
