 

Brandt E. Rice, M.D.

Date: Tanvas ~ 19, 20 19

Damean Freas, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Brandt E. Rice, M.D. License Number: D66068
Case Number: 2218-0156B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D66068, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
September 14, 2018, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine) and (33) (failure to
cooperate with a Board investigation). Specifically, Panel B alleged that I prescribed and
obtained large amounts of opioids for over two years for a fictitious individual and failed
to produce patient records or appear for an interview with the Board. A copy of the charges
is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I
 

Damean Freas, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Brandt E. Rice, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated
as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in
any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
lapply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I
file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position
as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that J have consulted with and was
represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to practice
medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Very-truly yours,,

/ Brandt E. Rice, M.D.
 

21. The MCPD determined that the address in Maryland for Patient 1 that the
Respondent provided to Maryland pharmacies does not exist; and, MCPD was unable to
locate any person with Patient 1°s name and either birthdates in a search of private and
government databases.

22. Investigation by MCPD also revealed that the Respondent had been
prescribing and obtaining oxycodone for Patient 1 in Maine, prior to the Respondent and
Patient | moving to Maryland. The Respondent presented an identification card from the
“National Association for the Self-Employed” (the Association’) for Patient | that the
Respondent presented to Pharmacy 2 in Maine, which was not issued by the Association."!

23. The Respondent’s December 13, 2017, letter to Pharmacy | in Maryland was
“to request ongoing support of (the Pharmacy) for the palliative care of (Patient 1).” The
Respondent further stated that he has been caring for Patient | over the last ten years,
including the last several for palliative care of metastatic prostate cancer. In the past,
Patient 1 “divided his time between Maine and Washington, D.C. area.” Over the last
several years, Patient | has remained in Maine “due to the severity of his medical
conditions.” He has recently been “sufficiently stable to travel south, likely for the last
time.” The Respondent described the assistance he obtained from the “pharmacy director”
of Pharmacy | at their location in Maine, including “keeping Patient 1°s cancer pain at bay”
and “discount strategies the staff was able to secure.” The Respondent expressed hope that
"' The Detective contacted the Association and was informed that no person with the name of Patient | was

a current member and the membership number on the card expired in 2008. The Association does not
include a photograph on their membership cards.
 

by continuing with the branch of Pharmacy | in Maryland, Patient | could “continue to
benefit from these financial savings.” The Respondent further stated that “the patient is
unable to venture out of his home at this point but has been stable with his current regimen
of care.”

24. In the interview of the Respondent conducted by two detectives from MCPD,
on March 7, 2018, the Respondent admitted the following facts:

a. He worked in Maine as a general practitioner for the past seven to eight years;

b. Approximately five years ago, Patient 1, who resided in Maine and Maryland,

contacted him for medical care. He diagnosed Patient | with prostate cancer.
Patient 1 refused to see any specialist for treatment;

c Patient 1 would drive to his medical office and he examined Patient 1 in the
parking lot;

d. Because of Patient 1’s limited mobility he took all of Patient 1’s prescriptions
to Pharmacy | in Maine to be filled and brought them back to Patient | in the
parking lot;

e. He prescribed increasing amounts of pain medicine, up to oxycodone 30 mg,

150 tablets every two to three weeks;
f. He also prescribed a female hormone? and blood pressure medication;

g. He closed his practice about two years ago and was doing locum tenens!? work
in the area;

h. In early December 2017, he met with Patient 1 and told Patient 1 he was
moving to Maryland and he would not be able to provide treatment anymore:

i, In early December 2017, he moved to Maryland;

 

® Estrogens are used in the treatment of prostate cancer to suppress the production of testosterone.

8 Locum Tenens is a Latin phrase for “to hold a place.” In healthcare, the term is used when
a healthcare employer faces temporary staffing shortages due to vacancies, illness, or other causes, they
hire locum _tenens physicians and other part-time clinicians ~~ to_—sfilll~—s those ~—_—vacancies.
j. Shortly after returning to Maryland, Patient 1, who had also moved to
Maryland, contacted him because Patient | needed to continue to be treated;

k. He was able to get a small amount of oxycodone 30 mg for Patient | who
picked it up at the Respondent’s home in Maryland;

I. A few days later, Patient 1 contacted him again and requested more
medication;

m. He went to several pharmacies to get more and was able to get another
prescription filled for a small amount of oxycodone 30 mg;

n. He wrote the prescriptions on forms using his office address in Maine;

0. He then told Patient 1 he could no longer provide treatment;

p. He has not since heard from Patient 1;

q. He has no information regarding where Patient | is staying in Maryland;

r He has never obtained any identification from Patient 1;

s. He does not have access to any files for Patient 1; and

t. He does not have any contact information for Patient 1 because Patient 1 had

provided him with a prepaid cellphone and after he refused to fill any more
prescriptions for Patient 1, the Respondent threw the cellphone away.

D. Attempts to Obtain Patient Medical Records and to Interview
Respondent

25. On April 11, 2018, the Board notified the Respondent that it was investigating
an allegation that he was overprescribing CDS. Included in the correspondence was a
subpoena for the complete medical record of Patient 1, a request for a summary of his care
of Patient 1, and an Information Form to be completed to provide the Board with his current
practice information.

10
 

26. The Respondent did not respond.

27. On May 7, 2018, the Board sent correspondence by electronic mail (“email”)
and first-class mail to the Respondent regarding his lack of response, reiterated its request
for a summary of care and practice information and re-issued the subpoena for medical
records for Patient 1. The Board informed the Respondent that his failure to fully comply
with the Board’s subpoena could be construed as a violation of Section 14-404(a)(33) of the
Act for failing to cooperate with a lawful investigation of the Board.

28. The Respondent did not respond.

29. Also, on May 7, 2018, the Board issued a subpoena to the Respondent to
appear and give testimony in an interview with Board staff at the Board on May 17, 2018.

30. The Respondent did not appear on May 17, 2018.

31. On May 25, 2018, Board staff received the following email from the
Respondent:

I am sorry for the late reply, however I have not yet had the chance to meet with
my attorney and get this situation figured out.

Appreciate your patience,

Brandt

32. On May 31, 2018, the Board issued a subpoena by regular mail, certified mail,
and email to the Respondent to appear and give testimony in an interview with Board stalf
at the Board on June 14, 2018.

33. On June 12, 2018, counsel for the Respondent informed Board staff that the
Respondent would be unable to appear at the Board on June 14, 2018.

34. To date, the Respondent has not submitted the medical records for Patient 1.

11
 

Vv. Sumnuiary of Investigative Allegations

35. The Respondent’s prescribing and obtaining large amounts of opioids, for over
two years, for an allegedly fictious individual, identified herein as Patient 1, and/or his failing
to provide Patient 1°s medical records pursuant to the Board's subpoena, or produce any
explanation regarding the records or any summary of his care of Patient 1; and the
Respondent's failure to appear on May 17, 2018 to be interviewed regarding the allegations
about his prescribing, are evidence of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3 (ii).

36. The Respondent's failing to provide Patient 1’s medical records pursuant to
the Board’s subpoena, or to produce any explanation regarding the records or any summary
of his care of Patient 1; and the Respondent's failure to appear on May 17, 2018 to be
interviewed regarding the allegations about his prescribing, are evidence of failure to
cooperate with a lawful investigation in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33).

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds for
action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), the disciplinary panel of the Board may impose
disciplinary sanctions against Respondent’s license, including revocation, suspension,
reprimand, probation and/or a monetary penalty.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION

 

A Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (“DCCR") conference in this matter
is scheduled for Wednesday December 19, 2018 at 9:00 a.m. at the Board’s office, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR is

12
 

described in the attached letter to Respondent. If this matter is not resolved at the DCCR, a

prehearing conference and hearing will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative

Hearings 11101 Gilroy Road Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted

in accordance with § 14-405 of the Act and Md, Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.

(2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.).

ay Mr
, ate

BRIAN E. FROSH
Attorney General of Maryland

tweed (Cec Vo Wwe Ven
Janet Klein Brown
Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor
Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division
300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
(410) 767-1865
janet.brown@maryland.gov

13
 

Damean Freas, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Brandt E. Rice, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

\ /
sTATE OF WV

CITY/COUNTY OF __ (SerlAel ey
Oth “,
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this LO day of “ “v)\ __, 2019 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Brandt E. Rice, M.D., and

declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

ra
OFFICIAL.

Notary Public, State

yp AUYD FOX

    

  
 
  
 

Notary Public

 

My commission expires: “5 | a> | A\

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 197 day of Io nviyy2019, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Brandt E. Riée, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

) Ca,

   
     

Christine A. Farrelly,
Maryland Board of Physicians
 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

BRANDT ERIC RICE, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D66068 * Case Number: 2218 - 0156 B

* * * * * * % * * * x * *

NOTICE OF CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby charges Brandt Eric Rice, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number
D66068, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Oce.
(“Health Occ.) §§ 14-101 e¢ seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Cum. Supp.).
The pertinent provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404 provide the
following:
(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a disciplinary
panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the
disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any liccnsee on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty oft

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine:

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the
Board or a disciplinary panel[.]

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

T ofa 5 ‘ . . . + : °
The statements regarding the Respondent's conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of
the basis of the charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete description

ATTACHMENT 1
 

1. Background of Licensure

lL. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
May 16, 2007, under license number D66068. He last renewed his license in or about
September 2017; and, his license is active through September 30, 2019.

2. The Respondent also is licensed to practice medicine in Maine, having
initially been licensed in 2008. The Respondent's license in Maine is active through
December 1, 2019.

3. Until approximately November 2017, the Respondent maintained an office
for the solo practice of medicine under the name of “Coastal Family Medicine of Maine
PLLC™ in Blue Hill, Maine.

4. Since moving to Maryland in December 2017, the Respondent now maintains
a practice under the name of “Concierge Medicine of Maryland and Maine.” ‘The
Respondent has provided to the medical boards in both Maine and Maryland his home
address as his “primary practice setting.” ?

5. The Respondent was board-certified in Family Medicine from July 9, 2004 to
December 31, 2011, but did not participate in maintenance of the certification.

6. On June 12, 2018, the Board of Licensure in Maine suspended the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maine.

7. On June 15, 2018, Panel B summarily suspended Respondent's Maryland

of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent regarding this
matter,
*Itis not known whether the Respondent has a medical office in his home for seeing patients.

2
license to practice medicine based on a finding that the Respondent’s conduct, as described
below, posed a substantial likelihood ofa risk of serious harm to the public health, safety or
welfare.

8. On July 25, 2018, following a show cause hearing before Panel B, Panel B
reaffirmed the order of summary suspension.

Ill, Complaint to the Board Regarding Criminal Investigation

9. On February 22, 2018, the Board received a complaint from a detective from
the Montgomery County Police Department, Special Investigations Division,
Pharmaceutical Unit (the “MCPD”) regarding the Respondent’s prescribing large amounts
of oxycodone to an allegedly fictitious patient.

10. The Detective from MCPD reported that on December 19, 2017, the
Respondent went to a pharmacy, Pharmacy 15, in Maryland and attempted to fill a
prescription for oxycodone for a patient, Patient 14, who he had allegedly been treating in
Maine for many years with pain medication for prostate cancer. The MCPD investigation
revealed that in Maine, the Respondent had been obtaining 1000 tablets of oxycodone 30
mg per month for Patient 1 froma Maine pharmacy. According to the Detectives’ interview
with the Respondent, the Respondent and Patient 1, independently, had recently moved
from Maine to the Bethesda area. The Respondent claimed that Patient 1 was bedridden, so

he was trying to get the same type of treatment arranged in Maryland as he had previously

 

* The names of the pharmacies are not identified in the Charges but are available to the Respondent in a
Confidential Identification List.

* Patient names are confidential and are not used in the Charges. The Respondent is aware of the identity of
Patient 1.
 

arranged in Maine, whereby he picked up Patient 1°s medication for him. Since the
Respondent was unable to produce Patient 1, or any form of identification for him,
Pharmacy 1, after initially filling one prescription on December 14, 2017, refused to fill
additional prescriptions written by the Respondent for Patient | and reported their concern
to the MCPD. The Respondent had been successful in obtaining oxycodone at two other
Maryland pharmacies in December 2017.°
IV. Board Investigation

11. On March 13, 2018, the Board issued subpoenas to three pharmacies in
Maryland, Pharmacy |, Pharmacy 2, and Pharmacy 3, for a computer printout of all
prescriptions for CDS written by the Respondent for Patient | from January 1, 2015, to the
date of the subpoena. Pharmacy | and Pharmacy 2, national chain pharmacies, also have
branches in Maine; and, the Board was able to obtain the Respondent’s prescribing
information from both Maryland and Maine.

12. According to the printouts, the Respondent consistently prescribed opiates to
Patient 1 in Maine from July 6, 2015 through December 3, 2017, predominately using
Pharmacy | for these prescriptions. The Respondent only utilized Pharmacy 2 in Maine for

these prescriptions for five months, from July 31, 2015 through December 28, 2015.

+ Subsequently, based on the investigation of MCPD, on May 15, 2018, the Respondent was arrested and
charged in the District Court for Montgomery County, criminal case number 6C00456567, with four counts
of obtaining or attempting to obtain a prescription drug by the counterfeiting or altering of a prescription or
written order; and four counts of possession of CDS (“controlled dangerous substance”), other than
marijuana. On August 30, 2018, the Respondent was indicted in the Circuit Court for Montgomery County,
criminal case number 134346C, with four counts of obtaining a prescription by fraud, four counts of

obtaining a prescription by altering or counterfeiting, and one count of possession of a narcotic with intent
to distribute.
 

13. According to the printouts, the Respondent prescribed opiates to Patient 1 in
Maryland from December 14, 2017 through December 23, 2017, utilizing all three
pharmacies. On December 23, 2017, the last day the Respondent was able to fill a
prescription for oxycodone for Patient 1 in Maryland, Pharmacy 2 refused to fill the
prescription for 100 tablets of oxycodone 30 mg, and instead, dispensed only 10 tablets. By
then, Pharmacy | had already reported the Respondent to the MCPD.

14. On April 4, 2018, the Board issued subpoenas to Pharmacy 1, 2, and 3 and
obtained copies of the original prescriptions written by the Respondent in Maryland for
Patient 1 for oxycodone on December 14, 15, 20 and 23, 2017.

A. Inyestigatory Information from Pharmacies | _, 2 and 3 in Maryland

15. The Board received a copy of the prescription from Pharmacy | which was
written by the Respondent on December 14, 2017, for Patient 1 for oxycodone 15 mg, 20
tablets, four to eight tablets as needed for “cancer pain, medically necessary.” Pharmacy
1 filled the prescription on December 14, 2017.°

16. | The Board received copies of two prescriptions for Patient | for oxycodone
which the Respondent presented to Pharmacy 2, at two different Maryland locations, as

follows:

a. On December 15, 2017, the Respondent wrote a prescription for
Patient 1 for oxycodone 30 mg, 100 tablets, two to four tablets as
needed for “cancer pain, chronic pain, medically necessary. palliative
care.” Pharmacy 2 filled the prescription on December 16, 2017 for
100 tablets; and

© The Respondent provided a full birthdate for Patient 1, which is confidential. The birth year, however, was
written as “1951,”
 

b. On December 23, 2017, the Respondent wrote a prescription for
Patient 1 for oxycodone 30 mg, 100 tablets, two to four tablets as
needed for “cancer pain, chronic pain, medically necessary, palliative
care.” Pharmacy 2 filled the prescription on December 23. 2017 with
only 10 tablets,’

17. The Board received a copy of one prescription from Pharmacy 3, a local
independent pharmacy in Maryland, written by the Respondent on December 19, 2017, for
Patient 1 for oxycodone 30 mg, 100 tablets, two to four tablets as needed for “cancer pain,
chronic pain, medically necessary.”® Pharmacy 3 filled the prescription on December 20,
2017, for 100 tablets.

B. Investigatory Information from Pharmacies 1 and 2 in Maine

18. The computer printout from Pharmacy 1 revealed that between July 6, 2015
and December 14, 2017, the Respondent wrote approximately 300 prescriptions in Maine
for Patient 1 which were filled at a branch of Pharmacy I in Maine, predominately for
oxycodone 30 mg, but also for hydrocodone/acetaminophen 10/325, and several kinds of
non-CDS Schedule II medications.? Of the total number of prescriptions filled, in 2015, at
Pharmacy 1, the Respondent wrote only six prescriptions for Patient 1 for Schedule I] CDS
(oxycodone 30 mg and hydrocodone/acetaminophen 10/325). In 2016, however, the

Respondent wrote 179 prescriptions for Patient 1 for Schedule I] CDS (oxycodone 30 mg

7 The Respondent provided the birth year as 1951 on both prescriptions.

* The Respondent wrote a completely different full birthdate on this prescription from the prescriptions he
wrote and presented at Pharmacy 1 and Pharmacy 2. The birthyear on the prescription he presented at
Pharmacy 3 was written as 1967, not 1951, as previously provided.

° The prescriptions included: metoprolol tartrate, a blood pressure medication; paroxetine (Paxil), an
antidepressant; estradiol, a steroid estrogen hormone; sumatriptan (Imitrex), uscd to treat migraine
headaches; prednisone, a corticosteroid used to treat certain inflammatory diseases; furosemide (Lasix), a
diuretic; and triamcinolone, a topical cream used to treat a variety of skin conditions.

6
and hydrocodone/acetaminophen 10/325), generally between 40 to 100 tablets per
prescription. In 2017, the Respondent wrote 125 prescriptions for Patient 1 for Schedule II
CDS (oxycodone 30 mg only) and escalated the frequency of prescriptions and the amounts.
The Respondent wrote these prescriptions for 250 tablets each, which were filled four times
a month, providing Patient 1 with 1000 tablets of oxycodone a month during 2017."

19. The computer printout from Pharmacy 2, another national chain pharmacy,
revealed that a total of 36 prescriptions were written in Maine by the Respondent for Patient
1 and filled at a location of Pharmacy 2 in Maine between July 31, 2015 and December 28,
2015. The Respondent wrote twenty-three of those prescriptions for oxycodone 30 mg for
amounts between 15 tablets to 50 tablets approximately every two weeks, although
sometimes more frequently. The Respondent wrote 15 of those prescriptions for
hydrocodone/acetaminophen 10/325 for amounts between 50 to 200 tablets approximately
every two wecks but sometimes more frequently.

C. — Investigatory information from MCPD

20. Board staff obtained the following documents from MCPD:

a. a copy of a letter of December 13, 2017, which the Respondent
presented to Pharmacy | in Maryland to obtain “ongoing palliative
cancer care” for Patient 1;

b. a copy of an interview of the Respondent conducted by MCPD
detectives on March 7, 2018; and

c. Application for Statement of Charges against the Respondent filed in
District Court of Maryland for Montgomery County (undated).

‘* According to the Statement of Charges, the database for Pharmacy | revealed that the Respondent had
been obtaining oxycodone or hydrocodone for Patient | since 2011 and that all prescriptions dispensed to
the Respondent for Patient | were paid for by the Respondent.

7
