 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
BRYAN S. WILLIAMS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D66774 Case Numbers: 2015-0725B; 2016-0824B;
2016-0830B; 2016-0860B & 2016-0904B

* * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Bryan S. Williams, M.D., (the
“Respondent’), license number D66774, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Disciplinary Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann.,
State Govt § 10-226(c)(2)(2014 Repl. Vol) concluding that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

PROCEDURAL HISTORY

On April 4, 2016, Panel B charged the Respondent with immoral and
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in violation of the Maryland Medical
Practice Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), after investigating
complaints received from Patients 1, 2 and 3 that the Respondent touched them
inappropriately during physical examinations, as set forth in J] 8 — 60, below."

After the Panel’s charging document was made public, the Board received

additional complaints from female patients of the Respondent that he had

‘ Panel B also charged the Respondent with willfully making or filing a false report in the practice of
medicine and willfully making a false representation when making an application related to the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11) and (36).
inappropriately touched them during physical examinations. See Patients 4 — 7, [J 61 —
122, below.
INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS
Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to

Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that

the following facts are true:”

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on October 18, 2007. His license is scheduled to expire on
September 30, 2017.

2. The Respondent holds active licenses in the District of Columbia and Virginia
and inactive licenses in California, Illinois and Michigan.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in anesthesiology and the sub-specialty of
pain medicine.

4. From November 2010 through October 2014, the Respondent was employed as
an interventional pain management specialist? at a medical group with offices in
Maryland and Virginia (“Medical Group”).*

5. The Medical Group terminated the Respondent’s employment on October 28,

2014 after receiving complaints that the Respondent had inappropriately touched

? The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
3 Interventional pain management is a subspecialty of pain management in which techniques such as
facet joint injections and nerve blocks are utilized.

Names of patients, other individuals and facilities are confidential. The Respondent may obtain the
names from the Administrative Prosecutor.

2
52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

 

The Respondent pulled Patient 3’s pants and underwear down farther to reveal
her buttocks. The Respondent had put on gloves at this point in his examination.
The Respondent felt between Patient 3’s legs and then reached underneath of
her and placed his hand near her vagina.

Patient 3 told the Respondent that she “did not like where he was at.” The
Respondent did not reply. Instead, he inserted his fingers in her vagina for
several seconds.

The Respondent did not explain why he was touching Patient 3 in this manner.
After removing his fingers from Patient 3’s vagina, the Respondent left the room
without speaking to Patient 3.

Patient 3 was shocked and upset.

Patient 3 had her husband accompany her to her next appointment with the
Respondent, on February 12, 2014. Patient 3 attempted to discuss with the
Respondent why he had touched her as he had because she still felt dirty and
violated, but was unable to.

Thereafter, Patient 3 arranged to go to appointments with the Respondent
accompanied by a family member because she did not feel comfortable with him.
On or about November 5, 2014, Patient 3 was seen for her appointment by a
physician other than the Respondent (Physician 4”). Patient 3 discussed her

concerns regarding the Respondent's conduct with Physician 4.’

’ Patient 3 had also discussed her concerns with her primary care physician shortly after her December
16, 2013 appointment with the Respondent.

11
61.

62.

63.

64.
65.
66.

67.

68.

69.

 

Patient 4 — Case # 2016-0824B

Patient 4, a female in her 40s, initially presented to the Respondent on April 1,
2014 with complaints of lower back and cervical pain secondary to lumbar and
cervical_radiculopathy..._ The Respondent examined_her_.on_that date._A
chaperone was not present.

On May 8, 2014, Patient 4 returned to the Respondent for a caudal epidural
steroid injection.

Patient 4, who had sustained a work-related injury in 2004, had been
administered lumbar injections from a physician other than the Respondent after
the injury. At her initial meeting with the Respondent, she indicated that she was
reluctant to receive more injections because the injections were painful and she
experienced no relief from her pain after the injection. The Respondent assured
her that he could do it differently and Patient 4 agreed to be injected because she
was tired of being in pain.

On May 8, 2014, Patient 4 presented to the Respondent for the lumbar injection.
Patient 4 was escorted to an exam room.

A chaperone was not present at any time during Patient 4’s May 8, 2014 visit.
The Respondent instructed Patient 4 to lie on her stomach on the examining
table.

The Respondent then instructed Patient 4 to pull down her underpants. Patient 4
complied and pulled down her underwear to the top of her intergluteal cleft.

The Respondent then continued to instruct Patient 4 to lower her underpants until

her buttocks were fully exposed.

® The groove between the buttocks that runs below the sacrum to the perineum.

12
70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

78.

 

The Respondent, who was wearing gloves, then used both of his hands to
separate Patient 4’s buttocks. He used his thumb to press and probe in between
Patient 4’s buttocks.

Patient 4 told the Respondent that other physicians had not touched her in that
area when giving an injection.

The Respondent responded that he was trying to get as close to the nerve as
possible and told Patient 4 to watch the bedside monitor while he injected her.
After injecting Patient 4, the Respondent placed a small bandage on the site of
the injection, in between her buttocks.

Patient 4 was disturbed that the Respondent had spread open her buttocks
before injecting her, but, at the time, believed that she did not have a basis to
question his conduct because she was not a doctor.

Patient 4 told her husband and daughter about the Respondent’s conduct as they
drove her home after the May 8 injection and a girlfriend (“Friend 1”) a short while
later.

On July 24, 2014, the Respondent administered a cervical injection to Patient 4.
During this procedure, Patient 4 was seen in the surgical center and wore a
surgical gown. The Respondent administered the injection in the presence of
surgical staff.

Patient 4 did not return to the Respondent after July 24, 2014.

On April 13, 2016, after learning about the Board’s action against the
Respondent, Patient 4 submitted a written complaint to the Board in which she

stated that she felt that the Respondent had “violated” her.

13
79.

80.

81.

82.

83.

84.

85.

The Respondent was provided a copy of Patient 4’s complaint. By letter dated
April 23, 2016, the Respondent stated that he did not recall the patient without
reviewing his notes, but “vehemently denfied]...that the buttock (sic) were spread
apart for the procedure.” The Respondent further stated that cervical epidural
steroid injections are performed under fluoroscopy which requires the
participation of an x-ray technician and one nurse, “which explains why a nurse
was present for the cervical injection described by [Patient 4].”

Patient 5 — Case # 2016-0830B

Patient 5, a female in her 50s with a history of chronic lumbar disc displacement
and severe lower back pain, initially presented to the Respondent in 2013.
Patient 5 had requested to be treated by the Respondent because he had treated
her husband for several years and she trusted him.

On or about November 27, 2013, Patient 5 presented for an office visit with the
Respondent. Previous visits with the Respondent had been uneventful.

At the November 27, 2013 visit, the Respondent asked Patient 5 about her pain
and whether his previous treatments had helped decrease her pain. The
Respondent then examined her.

At the beginning of the examination, the Respondent instructed Patient 5 to lie
face-down on the examining table.

The Respondent instructed Patient 5 to pull down her pants. Patient 5 complied,
pulling her pants down to the middle of her thigh and her underwear down to the

top of her intergluteal cleft.

14
86.

87.

88.

89.

90.

During his examination, the Respondent squeezed Patient 5’s upper legs with
both hands, asking her if she felt any pain. He continued to squeeze and press
Patient 5’s legs, moving up toward her buttocks. The Respondent then
squeezed her lower buttocks and moved his hands between her legs.

The Respondent moved his fingers so that he was almost touching Patient 5’s
vagina and anus. He then starting pressing very hard in to the bone structure of
the area between Patient 5’s inner thigh and vaginal area and continued to do so
for several minutes.

Patient 5 became very ill at ease with the Respondent's examination. She stated
that because she trusted the Respondent, she rationalized that he was
examining her differently than his previous examinations of her because his
previous treatments had not worked.

On April 15, 2016, Patient 5 filed a complaint with the Board.®

The Respondent was provided a copy of Patient 5's complaint. By letter dated
April 23, 2016, the Respondent stated that he did not recall the patient without
reviewing his notes. The Respondent stated that the examination as described
by Patient 5 “is not in accord with my examinations of the lumbar spine for
patients with chronic lumbar back pain....My standard examination, which is
entirely within the standard of care, includes palpation of the lumbar spine with
minimal to moderate palpation of the facet joint in the lumbar spine but does not

include the legs, the buttock, pelvis, or the vaginal area.”

® There is a discrepancy in the date cited by Patient 5 in her complaint as the date of the Respondent
inappropriately touched her and her later recollection.

15
91.

92.

93.

94.

 

Patient 6 —- Case # 2016-0860B

Patient 6, a female in her 50s, initially presented to the Respondent in 2011 for
treatment of her low back pain. Prior to seeing the Respondent, Patient 6 had
received lumbar steroid_injections_and_had_found them very painful...She was
referred to the Respondent because he sedated patients when administering
injections.

Patient 6 is and has been an employee of the Medical Group in an administrative
capacity for over twenty years.

Patient 6 saw the Respondent regularly from 2011 through August 2014. The
Respondent administered a series of lumbar epidural steroid injections to Patient
6.

On April 25, 2016, after learning about the Board’s action against the
Respondent, Patient 6 contacted the Board with concerns that the Respondent
had inappropriately touched her during his examinations. Patient 6 had not told
anyone about her concerns about the Respondent’s conduct earlier because she
thought he cared about her health and “you don’t want to say that about a doctor
and tarnish his name...| just figured it was me and my situation so | never just
said anything—"'® Patient 6 told Board staff that after learning of the Board’s
action against the Respondent, “it made me feel so sick, you know, and | was like

it wasn’t in my head. You know, all the time | was thinking that it was in my head.

1° patient 6 had held the Respondent in high regard. In June 2013, Patient 6 submitted to the Medical
Group a written compliment of the Respondent in which she commended him for being a “terrific doctor”
and for being so prompt and attentive to her needs. She also invited him to the April 2014 wedding of her
daughter, who was a patient of the Respondent, which he attended.

16
95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

| didn’t want to believe it. It wasn’t. Somebody came and they are saying exactly
what | was saying...So it hurt me.”

In her under-oath interview, Patient 6 stated that on several occasions, the
Respondent examined her in a way that made her very uncomfortable.

A chaperone was not present during any of the examinations, nor did the
Respondent wear gloves while examining her.

When examining Patient 6 during office visits, the Respondent often squeezed
and pressed her entire buttocks area, using his thumbs to push in her buttock
cheeks. Patient 6 stated that although no other physician had examined her in
that manner, she did not question the Respondent when he did so because,
“although it made me uncomfortable, | just tried to deal with it because he was
my doctor.” Patient 6 noted that she remained in her street clothes during office
visits which lessened her unease.

Patient 6 further recalled an instance when the Respondent had examined her at
the surgical center prior to a procedure.

Patient 6 wore a hospital gown that was open in the back and underpants. The
Respondent, who was standing, instructed Patient 6 to stand and hold her arms
out during the examination. The Respondent palpated Patient 6’s back and legs,
reaching underneath her gown to touch her skin with his ungloved hands. The
Respondent asked Patient 6 if it hurt as he pressed different areas of her body.
After pressing her buttocks, the Respondent moved to Patient 6’s front and, with

both hands, pressed the area between her legs. The Respondent’s thumb

17
100.

101.

102.

103.

104.

brushed across Patient 6’s vaginal area and clitoris. Patient 6 jumped back from
the Respondent.

Patient 6 became so uncomfortable when the Respondent examined her that, “I
stopped it.” Patient 6 told the Respondent that she did not want him to physically
examine her because she was in too much pain and that he would make the pain
worse if he touched her. Patient 6 told Board staff, “...then eventually he didn’t
kind of force me anymore to because he saw | was very persistent about him not
examining me because | used to tell him it hurt too bad.”

The Respondent continued to administer injections to Patient 6 even after, at her
request, he had stopped physically examining her.

During her under-oath interview, Patient 6 stated, “why would [the Respondent]
do that when people trusted him? It’s not fair that as a doctor he’s putting us
through this.” Patient 6 further stated, “[a]ls much as it hurts me, it really hurts me
that | feel like I’m betraying him but he shouldn’t do nobody like this.”

The Respondent was provided a copy of Patient 6’s complaint. By letter dated
April 23, 2016, the Respondent denied touching Patient 6’s buttocks or “private
parts” and stated that “my standard examination includes palpation of the lumbar
spine, but does not and has not included touching a patient's ‘private area’ or the
buttock.”

Patient 7 — Case # 2016 — 0904B

On or about May 2, 2016, Patient 7 contacted the Board to complain about an

examination the Respondent had performed of her.

18
105.

106.

107.

108.

109.

110.

 

Patient 7, a female in her 30s, has a medical history including scoliosis, a
herniated disk and arthritis. She was treated by the Respondent for
approximately three years, until 2014. Prior to an incident with the Respondent
that occurred in or around May 2014, Patient 7 had believed that he was.a very
knowledgeable and caring physician who took time to thoroughly explain her
condition and his treatment.

The Respondent did not administer injections to Patient 7; his treatment was
limited to prescribing medications, including opioid pain-killers. The Respondent
typically prescribed medications to Patient 7 on a monthly basis.

On May 28, 2013, Patient 7 presented to a Medical Group office to pick up a
prescription written by the Respondent. Patient 7 was accompanied by her five
year-old daughter.

When Patient 7 arrived at the office there was only one person (“Physician
Assistant A”) in the office other than the Respondent. Physician Assistant A
escorted Patient 7 and her daughter to an exam room to wait for the prescription
and then left the room.

The Respondent entered the exam room and inquired whether Patient 7 was
experiencing any new pain. Patient 7 replied that she had pain on her right side
that shot down the back of her leg.

The Respondent responded, “let me see” and positioned Patient 7 so that she
was standing with her back to him and facing her daughter, who was seated in a

corner of the room.

19
111.

112.

113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

The Respondent, who sat in the chair vacated by Patient 7, pulled down Patient
7’s pants and underwear, exposing her buttocks. The Respondent used both
hands to press and palpate both sides of Patient 7’s lower back and then gripped
and squeezed her buttocks with his thumbs.

The Respondent moved both hands to cup Patient 7‘s buttocks and moved his
thumbs between her legs so that they were very close to Patient 7’s vagina, but
not touching it.

The Respondent then began to pull up Patient 7’s underpants and pants but
Patient 7, who had become increasingly uncomfortable, especially because her
daughter was in the room, pulled them up herself.

Before leaving the exam room, the Respondent stated that he was going to order
an x-ray because Patient 7’s condition might be getting worse.

A chaperone was not in the room at any time during the Respondent's
examination of Patient 7 described above or on any other occasion that the
Respondent examined Patient 7.

On May 30, 2013, Patient 7 contacted Physician Assistant A and requested an
explanation of the examination the Respondent had performed on her. Physician
Assistant A noted in Patient 7’s record that she (Physician Assistant A) reviewed
the lumbar spine physical exam with Patient 7, but that Patient 7 was “not
satisfied.”

Patient 7 went on-line and viewed videos of a lumbar spinal examination. Patient
7 saw that the Respondent's examination of her was totally different than the

exams she had viewed.

20
two patients (“Patient 1” and “Patient 2”) during his examination or treatment of
them.

On or about April 9, 2015, Panel B received a complaint from the Medical Group
regarding the Respondent. The Medical Group had received a report in March
2015 from a primary care physician that one of his patients (“Patient 3”) had
complained to him that the Respondent had touched her inappropriately during
an examination in December 2013. The Medical Group reported to the Board
that three separate patients had lodged complaints over the previous year and a
half that the Respondent had touched each patient inappropriately while he
treated or examined her.

Panel B thereafter initiated an investigation that included subpoenaing the
patients’ records and conducting under-oath interviews of the patients, relevant
Medical Group physicians and the Respondent. The results of the Panel’s
investigation are summarized below.

Patient 1

Patient 1, a female in her 50s, had been treated by the Respondent
approximately six times from November 2012 to January 2014.

During Patient ‘1’s course of treatment, the Respondent administered
transforaminal epidural steroid injections (“TFESI”) to her sacroiliac and lumbar
facet joints. The Respondent administered Patient 1’s TFESIs at two of the

Medical Group’s offices in Maryland.
118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

 

By e-mail dated June 3, 2013, Patient 7 questioned the Respondent about the
type of examination he had performed on her, stating in part: “[t]hat exam was
VERY UNCOMFORTABLE, | have NEVER had a doctor to perform that exam
and | would like to know the name of it AND the purpose.” (Emphasis in original).
The Respondent telephoned Patient 7 in response to her e-mail but did not
address Patient 7’s concerns. He simply stated that her condition may be getting
worse and that he had ordered an x-ray.

Patient 7 did not see the Respondent after she confronted him about his
examination. The Respondent, however, continued to prescribe opioids to her.
On May 4, 2016, Patient 7 was interviewed under oath by Board staff. Patient 7
stated that the Respondent had never previously examined her in that way and
“[i]t just didn’t feel right.”

During her under-oath interview, Patient 7 stated that she had not reported the
Respondent's conduct earlier because she felt “like it was just me.” Patient 7
further stated that when she heard other women had come forward, “it made me

think wow, maybe if | had said sooner then they wouldn’t have to experience it.”

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the foregoing facts, Disciplinary Panel B concludes that the public

health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to

Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226 (c) (2) (i) (2014 Repl. Vol.), Code Regs. Md.

10.32.02.08B.7(a).

21
 

ORDER

Based on the foregoing, it is, by a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel B,
hereby

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §
10-226(c)(2), the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland be
and is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with Code Regs. Md.
10.32.02.08B (7) C and E, the Summary Suspension has been scheduled for May 25,
2016, at 11:15 a.m., at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing held
before Disciplinary Panel B, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the
hearing, may request within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be
held within thirty (30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the
Office of Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt
Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further

ORDERED that on presentation of this Order, the Respondent SHALL
SURRENDER to the Board’s Compliance Analyst, the following items:

(1) the Respondent's original Maryland License D66774; and

(2) the Respondent's current renewal certificate; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.);

and be it further
22
 

ORDERED that this is a Final Order of the Board and, as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.

} } ) —~
OS [I$ [2016 am
Date Christine A. Farrelly ()
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

23
10.

11.

12.

13.

Patient 1 was initially examined by the Respondent on or about November 21,
2012. Patient 1 presented with complaints of low back pain and had previously
undergone a surgical fusion of her sacroiliac joint.

The Respondent documented that Patient 1 had_left_posterior buttock/hip/groin
pain. The Respondent noted that Patient 1 had declined surgery in the past, but
“[a]t this time symptoms (sic) reduction may be achieved with [TFESI] procedure
to address the symptoms.”

At Patient 1’s initial office visit on November 21, 2012, the Respondent explained
the TFESI procedure to Patient 1, advising her that he would anesthetize her
during the procedure. Patient 1 had undergone previous spinal injections and
had found them to be very painful. She agreed to the Respondent's treatment
plan in large part because he represented that he would anesthetize her during
the procedure.

On November 21, 2012, Patient 1 was escorted to an examination room by a ,
staff person and was told to wait for the Respondent. Patient 1 remained in her
street clothes. A female chaperone was not present at any time during the
examination. While examining Patient 1’s back, the Respondent instructed
Patient 1 to lower her pants. The Respondent, who was not wearing gloves,
separated the cheeks of Patient 1’s buttocks and “went inside [Patient 1’s]
behind,” but did not digitally penetrate her anus . The Respondent then reached
around and came close to, but did not touch Patient 1’s vagina. The Respondent
did not explain to Patient 1 what he was doing or the purpose of this type of

examination.
14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

 

On or around June 14, 2013, Patient 1 presented to the Respondent for a TFESI.
Patient 1’s boyfriend (“Person 1”) had accompanied her, but remained in the
waiting room during the procedure.

Prior to the procedure, the Respondent examined Patient 1._A female chaperone
was not present. Patient 1 wore a surgical gown. During part of the
examination, the Respondent was seated behind Patient 1 who was standing.
The Respondent, who was wearing gloves, moved up Patient 1’s legs with both
hands. The Respondent continued to Patient 1’s vagina and with both hands
separated Patient 1’s labia and moved his hands up and down along the inside of
her vaginal walls; his knuckles were touching her clitoris. Patient 1 asked the
Respondent with alarm what he was doing. The Respondent replied that Patient
1 was not to worry, “it'll be alright.”

The Respondent did not explain why he touched Patient 1 in this manner.

Patient 1 was shocked and concerned about the Respondent’s conduct, and
thereafter did not go to appointments with him without being accompanied by a
family member or friend.

On or about July 26, 2013, Patient 1 returned to the Respondent for a TFESI.
After the procedure, Person 1 was taken to Patient 1’s post-surgical recovery
area where Patient 1 was lying down. A female chaperone was not present.
Person 1 observed the Respondent enter the area and lift Patient 1’s surgical
gown.

Person 1 was uncomfortable with the Respondent’s conduct.
20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

 

On or about September 27, 2013, Patient 1 returned to the Respondent for a
TFESI. Patient 1 was accompanied by one of her sisters; the Respondent did
not engage in any inappropriate conduct during this visit.

On or about January 24, 2014, Patient 1 returned to the Respondent for a TFESI.
She was accompanied on this visit by Person 1 who remained with Patient 1
during the Respondent pre-procedure examination. A female chaperone was not
present during the examination.

During the examination, the Respondent asked Patient 1, who was wearing a
surgical gown, to stand. The Respondent who was seated behind her and
wearing gloves, began to move up her legs with both hands. As he had done
previously (see 9/15), the Respondent separated Patient 1’s labia with both hands
and moved his hands up and down the walls of her vagina, while his knuckles
touched her clitoris repeatedly. As he did so, he looked up at Patient 1. Finally,
Patient 1 demanded to know what he thought he was doing. Patient 1 observed
that the Respondent had an erection.

Person 1 observed that when the Respondent completed the examination, he
lifted one of his gloved hands to his nose before discarding the glove. When
exiting the room, the Respondent raised both of his hands over his head.

On or about January 30, 2014, Patient 1 reported to her primary care physician
(‘Physician 1”) that she felt as if she had been “molested” during her last
examination by the Respondent.

Upon receipt and investigation of Patient 1’s complaint, the Respondent’s

supervising physician (“Physician 2”) mandated that the Respondent attend a
26.

27.

28.

29.

 

Continuing Medical Education (“CME”) seminar on professional boundaries,
which included a discussion of the necessity for and benefits of chaperones for
both patient and physician.

In his under-oath interview with Board staff, Physician 2 stated that in addition to
instructing the Respondent to attend the chaperone CME seminar, he had
personally discussed with the Respondent the importance of chaperones and
had instructed the Respondent to have a chaperone present whenever he was
examining a female patient. Physician 2 told the Respondent that family
members were not to be used as chaperones.

In his interview, Physician 2 stated that the Respondent had affirmed his
understanding of the directive that a chaperone was to be present any time the
Respondent examined a female patient. Physician 2 stated that the Respondent
had told him that he (the Respondent) had learned a valuable lesson from
Patient 1’s complaint.

The Respondent told Medical Group personnel that he had attended the
chaperone seminar. The Respondent, however, failed to complete the process
by which to obtain certification for the seminar.

Patient 2

Patient 2, a female in her 40s, presented to the Respondent on one occasion, on
or about August 18, 2014. Patient 2 had been referred to the Respondent by her
primary care physician for a consultation regarding Patient 2’s back, leg and arm

pain.
30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

 

On August 18, 2014, Patient 2 was escorted to an examination room and was
told to wait for the Respondent. Patient 2 remained in her street clothes.

A female chaperone was not present during the Respondent's examination of
Patient 2.

Patient 2 told the Respondent that she was in a lot of pain and asked if it was
possible that she had fractured her spine as a result of a fall in December 2013.
The Respondent documented in Patient 2’s medical record that he performed a
number of musculoskeletal tests on Patient 2 involving manipulation of her head
and neck as well as her legs. The Respondent further documented that Patient 2
had pain on palpation at the lumbar facet joints.

At one point during the Respondent’s examination, he stood behind Patient 2 and
“touched [her] spine from the top to the bottom,” while asking if she experienced
any pain.

The Respondent asked her to pull her pants down. When she complied, the
Respondent, who was not wearing gloves, touched the area of Patient 2’s coccyx
and then moved to her anus.

The Respondent stopped to put on a glove and then inserted his finger in Patient
2’s anus, asking her if she felt any pain.

The Respondent then instructed Patient 2 to pull up her pants and told her that it
was unlikely that she had fractured her spine. The Respondent told Patient 2
that if she had fractured any bones in her lower spine, the fracture would have

healed with the passage of time.
38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

 

The Respondent ordered MRIs of Patient 2’s cervical and thoracic spine and x-
rays of her coccyx and lumbosacral spine.

Patient 2 then told the Respondent that she also had pain in her foot. The
Respondent entered some information on the computer in the exam room and
advised Patient 2 that he could not do anything about her foot pain. He referred
her for a podiatric consultation. He also prescribed prednisone, a corticosteroid
medication.

As the Respondent continued to enter information on the computer, someone
knocked on the closed examination room door and told the Respondent that he
was needed elsewhere. The Respondent replied that he was with a patient and
was almost finished.

The Respondent, who was seated on a rolling stool, instructed Patient 2 to
approach him. He positioned Patient 2 between his legs and instructed her to
pull down her pants. The Respondent put on a glove and once again inserted his
finger in her anus, this time further than the first insertion.

After removing his finger, the Respondent rose and washed his hands, repeating
to Patient 2 that he did not think that she had a broken bone.

At no time did the Respondent explain to Patient 2 the reason why he inserted
his finger in her anus on two occasions.

Patient 2 felt very uncomfortable after the Respondent had touched her and ran

to the bathroom to clean herself.
45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

 

Patient 2 did not return to the Respondent after her August 18, 2014
appointment. Patient 2 was so upset by the Respondent's conduct that she did
not open a follow-up e-mail® from him for almost two weeks.

In September and October, 2014, Patient 2 sent e-mails to the Respondent
inquiring about the results of her tests. The Respondent responded to her first e-
mail, but failed to respond to subsequent correspondence.

On October 15, 2014, Patient 2 e-mailed her primary care physician (“Physician
3”). In the e-mail, Patient 2 reported that she “felt [she] had been sexually
abused by one of [Physician 3’s] colleagues.”

Patient 3

Patient 3, a female in her 40s, initially presented to the Respondent on or about
December 16, 2013 to have her intrathecal pump* refilled with pain medication.
The Respondent examined Patient 3 during the December 16, 2013 visit. A
female chaperone was not present during the examination.

Patient 3 complained of pain in her hip. The Respondent instructed Patient 3 to
stand up and pull her pants down. Patient 3 pulled her pants down far enough to
reveal her back. The Respondent, who was seated in a stool behind Patient 3,
began touching her mid and lower back and asked Patient 3 if she felt pain as he
touched various areas.

Patient 3 stated that she felt pain when he touched her hip. The Respondent

replied that that area was her pelvis.

5 The e-mail, dated August 18, 2014, consisted of a standard message that it was a pleasure to have
seen Patient 2 and providing contact numbers for non-urgent matters.
° A medical device that delivers medication directly into the space surrounding the spinal cord.

10
