IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

BRYAN S. WILLIAMS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Applicant for Reinstatement * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Former License No: D66774 * Case No: 8822-0001

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER ON APPLICATION FOR REINSTATEMENT
OF MEDICAL LICENSURE AFTER REVOCATION

 

I. PROCEDURAL AND FACTUAL HISTORY

From 2010 until 2014, Bryan §. Williams, M.D., worked as an interventional pain
management specialist. The Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) received a
complaint that he inappropriately touched female patients. Based on evidence revealed during
the Board’s investigation and presented at Dr. Williams’s six-day evidentiary hearing, the Board
found that Dr. Williams violated several provisions of the Medical Practice Act by touching four
patients in or around their sexualized body parts and misrepresenting his termination from his
employment on subsequent employment and Board renewal applications.

On December 29, 2017, Disciplinary Panel A (the “Panel” or “Panel A”) of the Board
issued a Final Decision and Order concluding that Dr. Williams violated the following provisions
of the Medical Practice Act, Md. Health Occ. Code Ann. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) — immoral
and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, due to his violation of the Board sexual
misconduct regulations COMAR 10.32.17 for four patients; § 14-404(a)(11) — willfully making
or filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine; and § 14-404(a)(36) — willfully
making a false representation when seeking or making application for licensure or any other
application related to the practice of medicine. Based on these violations, the Board revoked Dr.

Williams’s medical license.
On May 14, 2021, Dr. Williams applied for the reinstatement of his medical license. On

December 1, 2021, Panel A convened as a Reinstatement Inquiry Panel to consider Dr.

Williams’s petition for reinstatement of his medical license after revocation. The Panel reviewed

Dr. Williams’s application for reinstatement with attachments, Dr. Williams’s responses to

questions from the Board, reports from specialists; a response from the administrative prosecutor

recommending denial of Dr. Williams’s reinstatement, and Dr. Williams’s prior Board Orders.

The Panel also heard oral presentations from Dr. Williams, his counsel, and from the

administrative prosecutor.

Il. APPLICATION FOR REINSTATEMENT

On May 4, 2021, the Board received Dr. Williams’s application for reinstatement. The

Board sent Dr. Williams a series of questions and requests including the following:

1.

led to his license revocation, Dr. Williams simply listed the grounds for which he was disciplined

’ What is your understanding of the nature and circumstances of your conduct, which

resulted in the revocation of your Maryland license?

What is your understanding of the Board’s concerns with respect to your conduct?

Have you accepted responsibility for the action(s) resulting in the revocation of your
license?

What steps have you taken to lessen the likelihood of recurrence? What steps would you
take to lessen the likelihood of recurrence should your license be reinstated?

What are your plans for returning to the practice of medicine as a physician in the State
of Maryland and what is your proposed practice setting? Do you have any employment
prospects lined up in the event your license is reinstated?

What efforts have you made to maintain your competency to practice medicine in your
area of specialty (i.e. continuing education credits)?

Additionally, the Board asked:

For character and fitness question (n), please provide further explanation regarding your
termination from [Employer] for not having a chaperone when an exam was conducted,
including why you were required to have a chaperone during exams and when the
incident(s) that lead to your termination occurred.

In his written response to the question asking about his understanding of his conduct that
in the Board’s Final Decision and Order, but did not describe any facts of his actual conduct that
resulted in the revocation of his license. Specifically, Dr. Williams did not describe the sexual
abuse he inflicted on his patients or acknowledge the instances of misrepresentations on his
applications. In responding to the question regarding his understanding of the Board’s concerns
with his conduct, Dr. Williams generically referred to the Board’s concern with “my ability to
conduct myself in a professional manner which reflects the high ethical, moral, and medical
standard required of all healthcare providers in the State of Maryland.” In response to his
question about whether he accepted responsibility, Dr. Williams simply stated “Yes.” Dr.
Williams did not express remorse or elaborate.

In response to the question asking what steps Dr. Williams took to prevent recurrence,
Dr. Williams stated that he has “taken appropriate actions to address each of the Board’s
concerns. .... [and that] a chaperone will be present at all times during examinations to ensure
that all interactions are properly monitored.” Aside from his assurance that he would use a
chaperone in his practice going forward, the most specific information that Dr. Williams
provided in his letter was his statement that he “completed CME credits in the areas of
unprofessional behavior, professional boundaries, ethics, physician impairment, malpractice
liability, health care quality, confirmation bias and bias in medical care.”
Ill. CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION

The reinstatement of a physician’s medical license after revocation is a discretionary
decision by the Panel. Health Occ. § 14-409; see Oltman vy. Maryland State Board of Physicians,
182 Md. App. 65, 78 (2008). The Panel must consider whether post-disciplinary reinstatement is
in the interest of the health and welfare of the general public and consistent with the best interest

of the profession. COMAR 10.32.02.06B(7). Critical issues for the Panel’s consideration
include Dr. Williams’s understanding of the nature of his violations, and his acceptance of
responsibility for these violations. Ifa disciplinary panel chooses not to reinstate the petitioner’ s
license, the. “disciplinary panel decision denying reinstatement may set out when, if ever, a
subsequent petition may be submitted.” COMAR 10.32.02.06B(8) (emphasis added),

As an-initial matter, the Panel notes the serious nature of Dr. Williams’s conduct and the
harm he caused to his patients. When revoking Dr. Williams’ license, the Panel explained that
he committed sexual violations against four patients and in doing so abused his professional
status and breached the trust his patients placed in him. Dr. Williams placed his fingers in a
patient’s anus, and in another patient’s vagina, and brushed his finger across another patient’s
clitoris. His conduct caused his patients significant distress. The State’s policy focus is
protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the public, as memorialized in Health Occ, § 1-
102(a), and thus the Panel must take into account that he exhibited a pattern of sexual abuse,
directly harming his patients.

Moreover, Panel A finds that Dr. Williams has not genuinely accepted responsibility for
his actions. His response to the Board’s follow-up questions did not acknowledge any
wrongdoing or specify any concerns other than a generic discussion about professionalism. In
responding to the specific question about his termination from employment, Dr. Williams
continues to deny that he did anything wrong, claiming that he was not advised that he needed a
chaperone present during his evaluations.

Though he states that he accepts responsibility for his actions, Dr. Williams’s failure to
acknowledge any misconduct does not instill confidence that he has sincerely taken

responsibility for his actions.
Before this Panel, Dr. Williams stated that he would use a chaperone to protect himself
from further accusations, but he did not express any sympathy towards the patients whom he
harmed. The Board’s Order revoking his license noted significant aftereffects of patients who
were sexually abused by Dr. Williams. For instance, Patient 2 suffered from night terrors and
sought psychiatric treatment to deal with her trauma based on Dr. William’s conduct. And
Patient 5 sought sexual assault counseling on a weekly basis. Dr. Williams’s responses are not
sufficient to assure the Panel that his conduct would not be repeated.

In the ALJ’s proposed decision, on the adjudication of the charges, the ALJ
recommended a permanent revocation of Dr. Williams’s license. The Panel, instead, simply
revoked his license, without any restriction on reapplying to practice medicine. Having
considered all of the foregoing information, the Panel concludes that Dr. Williams has not
satisfied the Panel that he is fit to return to the practice of medicine, reinstatement is not in the
interest of the health and welfare of the general public, and reinstatement would not be consistent
with the best interest of the profession. The Panel has no confidence that Dr. Williams will ever
be safe to practice in this State again. The Panel will, therefore, deny his application for

reinstatement and will not permit him to reapply.
ORDER
Disciplinary Panel A hereby ORDERS that the Petition for Reinstatement of Medical
Licensure after Revocation of Bryan S. Williams, M.D., former license number D66774, is
DENIED: and it is further
ORDERED that Dr. Williams shall not reapply for the reinstatement of his license to
practice medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director (, /
Maryland State Board of Physicians L/

 

 
