IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ROBERT STEVEN HANLEY, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D66921 * Case Number: 2218-0280B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

 

On November 5, 2019, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged Robert Steven Hanley, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D66921, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act and COMAR 10.32.17 et seq. provide:

Health Occ. § 14-404, Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and
revocations -- Grounds.

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or

Gi) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine[.]
Health Occ. § 1-212. Sexual misconduct prohibited; regulations;
discipline.

(a) Adoption of regulations. -- Each health occupations board authorized
to issue a license or certificate under this article shall adopt regulations
that:

(1) Prohibit sexual misconduct; and

(2) Provide for the discipline of a licensee or certificate holder
found to be guilty of sexual misconduct.

COMAR 10.32.17.01 Scope.

This chapter prohibits sexual misconduct against patients or key third parties
by individuals licensed or certified under Health Occupations Article, Titles
14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland.

COMAR 10.32.17.02. Definitions.
A. In this chapter, the following terms have the meanings indicated.

B. Terms Defined.

(2) Sexual Impropriety.

(a) “Sexual impropriety” means behavior, gestures,
or expressions that are seductive, sexually
suggestive, or sexually demeaning to a patient or
a key third party regardless of whether the sexual
impropriety occurs inside or outside of a
professional setting.

(b) “Sexual impropriety” includes, but is not limited
to:

(iii) Using the health care practitioner-
patient relationship to initiate or
solicit a dating, romantic, or sexual
relationship; and
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation;
and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has
passed, the Respondent may submit to the Board a written petition for termination of
probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an
order of the disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be required to appear before the
disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant
the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel, if the
Respondent has complied with all probationary terms and conditions and there are no
pending complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is

further

I
Date

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann., Health

Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Bleaive Direcfof
Maryland State Board of Physicians

12
CONSENT

I, Robert Steven Hanley, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel
before signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary pane! will not entertain any request for
amendinents or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. | waive all rights

to appeal this Consent Order.

13
I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms.

Signature on File

Date Robert Steven }Hénley, M.D.
Respondent (

NOTARY

STATE OF _/.- , 1. 4
CITY/COUNTY OF _fAync Area det

1 HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2° day of _/“14-c__ 2020, before me,
a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Robert S.
Hanley, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order
was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

   

Notary Public

RYAN PAUL GILL
[CO PAY Zotzo NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MARYLAND

My Commission expires: My Commission Expires May 10, 2020

14
(3)

(4)

(iv) Initiation by the health care
practitioner of conversation
regarding the health care
practitioner's sexual problems,
sexual likes or dislikes, or
fantasies.

“Sexual misconduct” means a health care practitioner's
behavior toward a patient, former patient, or key third party,
which includes:

(a) Sexual impropriety;
(b) — Sexual violation; or

(c) Engaging in a dating, romantic, or sexual
relationship which violates the code of ethics of
the American Medical Association, American
Osteopathic Association, American Psychiatric
Association, or other standard recognized
professional code of ethics of the health care
practitioner's discipline or specialty.

Sexual Violation.

(a) “Sexual violation” means health — care
practitioner-patient or key third party sex,
whether or not initiated by the patient or key
third party, and engaging in any conduct with a
patient or key third party that is sexual or may be
reasonably interpreted as sexual, regardless of
whether the sexual violation occurs inside or
outside of a professional setting.

(b) “Sexual violation” includes, but is not limited to:

(i) Sexual intercourse, genital to
genital contact;

(iv) Kissing in a romantic or sexual
manner;

(v) Touching the paticnt’s breasts,
genitals, or any sexualized body
part;
(vi) Actively causing the patient or key
third party to touch the health care
practitioner's breasts, genitals, or
any sexualized body part;

(ix) Intentionally exposing the health
care practitioner's breasts, genitals,
or any sexualized body part.

COMAR 10.32.17.03. Sexual Misconduct.

A. Individuals licensed or certified under Health Occupations Article,

Titles 14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland, may not engage in
sexual misconduct.

B, Health Occupations Article, §§14-404(a)(3) and 15-314(3),
Annotated Code of Maryland, includes, but is not limited to, sexual
misconduct.

On February 26, 2020, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case

Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of the

DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B finds:
L BACKGROUND
1, At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent was and is licensed to

practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent is board certified in Urology.
The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on December 14,

2007, and his license is currently scheduled for renewal on September 30, 2020.
2. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent was employed at a
urology practice (“Medical Center”).!
Wi. THE COMPLAINT

3. On or about June 14, 2018, the Board received a complaint from a patient
(the “Patient”) who alleged that after having recently performed an adrenalectomy on the
Patient, the Respondent and the Patient engaged in unprotected sex on three separate
occasions. The Patient further alleged that after she suspected that she was pregnant, the
Respondent prescribed an abortive medication to her.

4. After receiving the complaint, the Board initiated an investigation.
Wl. BOARD INVESTIGATION

5. On or about December 6, 2018, Board staff notified the Respondent of its
investigation, requested a written response to the allegations, and requested a copy of the
Patient’s medical records.

6. In furtherance of its investigation, Board staff conducted interviews of
witnesses, as well as subpoenaed the Patient’s medical records and prescriptions issued by

the Respondent for the Patient.

Medical Records
7. The medical records received for the Patient revealed the following:
a. The Patient saw the Respondent on August 16, 2017, for an evaluation for an

adrenal mass.

1 In order to maintain confidentiality, the names of patients and facilities will not be identified in this
Consent Order. The Respondent is aware of the identities of patients and individuals referenced herein.
b. The Respondent performed a robotic assisted left adrenalectomy on the
Patient on September 14, 2017.
c. The Respondent saw the Patient on October 31, 2017, at which time, the
Respondent documented in the Patient’s medical record that she was to
“{flollow-up in 3 months.”
Pharmacy Records
8. The pharmacy records revealed the Respondent telephoned in two
prescriptions for Misoprostol? 200 mcg tablets on November 24, 2017—one prescription
for eight tablets and another prescription for six tablets.
Interview of the Patient
9. On or about July 16, 2018, Board staff interviewed the Patient under oath,
According to the Patient:
a. At the end of her appointment with the Respondent on October 31, 2017, the
Respondent gave her his Kik? username.
b. She began corresponding with the Respondent outside of a clinical
environment on October 31, 2017.
c. She engaged in sexual intercourse with the Respondent on three separate

occasions—November 1, 2017; November 4, 2017; and November 13, 2017.

? Misoprostol (brand name Cytotec) is used to prevent NSAID-associated gastric ulcers. Misoprostol’s off-
label uses includes labor induction and abortions.

> Kik is an instant messenger application that is known for its feature that preserves a user’s anonymity.
In or around the Thanksgiving holiday in 2017, the Patient notified the
Respondent that she was pregnant with the Respondent’s child.

After the Patient notified the Respondent that she was pregnant, the Patient
met the Respondent in a parking lot to discuss the situation.

The Respondent called in a prescription for Cytotec for the Patient.

Later that afternoon the Respondent called in a second prescription for

Cytotec for the Patient.

Interview of Respondent

10.

On or about January 10, 2019, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under

oath, According to the Respondent:

a.

The Respondent stated that he saw the Patient on October 31, 2017, fora
routine post-operative check. At the end of the appointment he told the
Patient he would see her “back in a couple months.” Prior to leaving the
appointment, the Patient gave the Respondent her Kik username.

The Respondent admitted that he engaged in sexual intercourse with the
Patient on three separate occasions—November 1, 2017; November 4, 2017;
and November 13, 2017.

The Respondent asserted that when he met the Patient the first time to have
sexual intercourse, he “unequivocally” said to the Patient “that she was no
longer my patient, I could not see her as a provider.”

Around the 2017 Thanksgiving holiday, the Patient notified the Respondent

that she was pregnant. The Patient met the Respondent in a parking lot to
discuss the situation; the Respondent stated he did not “want to go forward
with the pregnancy at all... . And she was on the fence.”

e. While they were sitting in the parking lot, the Respondent called one of the
gynecologists from the hospital “to confirm that 1. . . had the right dosing
and that ultimately everything was, you know, as I had, you know,
predicted.” And then the Respondent called in a prescription for Cytotec for
the Patient.

f. The Respondent instructed the Patient on how to take the Cytotec, observed
the Patient take the first Cytotec prescription, and then the Respondent left.

g. The Respondent asserted that the Respondent and the Patient “voluntarily”
decided that they did not want to “go forward with the claimed pregnancy.”

h. Throughout the day the Respondent checked in with the Patient.

i. Later that afternoon the Respondent recommended that the Patient take a
second prescription for Cytotec because the Patient “did not have any
menses, any bleeding episodes for the four to six-hour time period.”

je The Respondent asked his own personal psychiatrist “to see her,” which the
Respondent paid for from approximately “December of 2017 to around May
or June of 2018.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Disciplinary Panel B concludes as a matter of law that the Respondent is guilty of

immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in violation of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii); and that the Respondent violated Health Occ. § 1-212(a) and

COMAR 10.32.17.03(A) and (B).

ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on probation for a minimum period of

ONE (1) YEAR.’ During probation, the Respondent shall comply with the following

terms and conditions of probation:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Within 5 BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial
consultation for enrollment;

Within 15 BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited
to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to
the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information
from MPRP records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall
not withdraw his/her release/consent;

4 If the Respondent's license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will

be tolled.
(e)

(p)

The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.¢., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists
and treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning
the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.
The Respondent shall not withdraw his/her release/consent; and

The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Consent Order.

Within SIX (6) MONTHS of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent is required to take a course in maintaining ethical boundaries in
the treatment of patients. The following terms apply:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(c)

It is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain
the disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course
is begun;

The disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the
internet;

The Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary
panel that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

The course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal; and

The Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course,

Within TWO (2) YEARS of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent shall pay a civil fine of $ 25,000.00. The Payment shall be by
money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board of
Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The
Board will not renew or reinstate the Respondent’s license if the Respondent
fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; and it is further

10
