Robert S. Hanley, Jr., M.D.

pac: \Wh4d03\

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4th Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Robert S. Hanley, Jr., M.D,

License Number: D66921

Case No. 7721-0079

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §14-403,
I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,
License Number D66921, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license,
I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the ““Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-
101 ef seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as
an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that, on March 24, 2020, I entered into a Consent Order with
Panel B of the Board. One of the conditions of the Consent Order required that I be placed on
probation for a minimum period of one-year and enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and comply with conditions of a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement. On January 6, 2021, Panel B found that I violated the terms and conditions of the
March 24, 2020 Consent Order by failing to comply with the terms of my MPRP Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement, extended by six months the one-year probation imposed by the March
24, 2020 Consent Order, and ordered that I reenroll in the MPRP as a term of that probation. A
copy of the Order After Show Cause Hearing is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment
1. Lreenrolled in MPRP and initially communicated my intent to comply with the terms of the
program, but, on March 2, 2021, I notified MPRP that I wished to withdraw from the program
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Robert S. Hanley, Jr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

and MPRP discharged me from the program for cause, on March 9, 2021 , for failing to attend the
recommended evaluation.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
rather than continue to participate in the MPRP at this time. I acknowledge that by declining to
participate further in the MPRP and failing to attend the recommended evaluation, I have
violated the terms and conditions of the Order After Show Cause Hearing. I acknowledge that
the Order After Show Cause Hearing remains and will continue to be a valid Order of the Board.
Upon acceptance of this Letter of Surrender, however, I will not be required to comply with the
conditions of the Order After Show Cause Hearing or of the March 24, 2020 Consent Order as
long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution for violating the Order After Show Cause Hearing. |
acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be able to prove that I

violated the Order After Show Cause Hearing by a preponderance of the evidence and that such
violation shall be treated as proven.

1 understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a hearing
to contest any charges related to my violation of the Order After Show Cause Hearing. In
waiving my right to contest the charges, | also am waiving the right to be represented by counsel
at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and

all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
a circuit court.

{ understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 e¢ seq.
(2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

1 further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose terms and conditions in
conformity with or in addition to those set forth in the Order After Show Cause Hearing. |
further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked. I understand
that I may apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License no earlier than five years from the
date of this Letter of Surrender.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever, Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or designee signs the

Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Order,

and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health

Oce. §§ 1-607 and 14-411.1, and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b) (2014 & 2019 Supp.).

ovfov foe) Signature on File

Date Christine A, eT ae Poe? /]
Maryland State Board of Physiefans A

 
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Robert S. Hanley, Jr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with
and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to practice
medicine in Maryland. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very-truly yours, .
Signature on File

tyobert 8. Hanley, Jr., M.D. ——
NOTARY Ni oe
STATEOF 4 \.-8

CITY/COUNTY OF _ Awe Avidc|

THEREBY CERTIFY that on this_\C day of _ “ay 2021, before me,
a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, did personally appear Robert S.

Hanley, Jr., M.D, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing
of this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and notary seal.

 

. B Boh
Notary Public RYAN PAUL GILL
NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MARYLAND
a4 : : My Commission Expires May 10, 2024
My commission expires: 1° yy zoe
ACCEPTANCE
4
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this_/| g day of M a 2021, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Robert § Hanley, Jr., M.D.’s

license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Executiv Director //
Maryland Board of Physiciai
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

ROBERT S. HANLEY, JR., M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. * PHYSICIANS -
License No. D6692) * Case No. 7720-0094B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On March 24, 2020, Robert S. Hanley, Jr., M.D. entered into a Consent Order with
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”). One
of the conditions of the Consent Order required Dr. Hanley to enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and comply with conditions of a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement that he signed on April 10, 2020 with MPRP. On September 28, 2020, Panel B issued
a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause, charging Dr. Hanley with failure to
comply with his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement, in violation of the March 24, 2020 Consent
Order. On November 18, 2020, Panel B held a show cause heating where Dr. Hanley had the
opportunity to argue why his medical license should not be subject to further discipline.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Background and Disciplinary Charges

On November 5, 2019, Panel B charged Dr. Hanley with violating provisions of the Health
Occupations Article, specifically § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) (immoral! and unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine); § 1-212(a) (Sexual misconduct prohibited; regulations; discipline);
and the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations, COMAR 10.32.17.03A and B (Sexual

Misconduct). The charges followed a Board investigation establishing that Dr. Hanley had
engaged in sexual intercourse with a patient on three separate occasions and later prescribed
abortive medications to her for a suspected pregnancy.

March 24, 2020 Consent Order

To resolve the disciplinary charges against him, Dr. Hanley agreed to enter into a Consent
Order with Panel B, wherein Panel B concluded that Dr. Hanley was guilty of immoral and
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i)
and (ii), and that he violated Health Occ. § 1-212(a) and COMAR 10.32.17.03A and B. Panel B
imposed a reprimand, placed Dr. Hanley on probation for a minimum of one year, subject to certain
terms and conditions, including requirements that he enroll in the Maryland Professional

Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan as follows:

* * *

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals,
tules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreements(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP.

* * *

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions including
terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreements(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order.

The Consent Order further stated:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of
the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a
disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines that there is no genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, ifthe disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine
upon the Respondent.

Violation of March 24, 2020 Consent Order

Following his enrollment in MPRP, Dr. Hanley signed a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement.on April 10, 2020. Dr. Hanley agreed to obtain any evaluations as recommended by
MPRP, abide by the Rehabilitation Plan, and follow all MPRP recommendations. On July 14,
2020, MPRP notified Board staff that Dr. Hanley’s case had been closed for cause and that he had
been discharged from the program due to his failure to obtain a specific evaluation, as directed by
MPRP. On August 4, 2020, the Board sent a letter to Dr. Hanley requesting, by August 18, 2020,
a written response to MPRP’s closure of his case for cause. In a written response dated August 18,
2020, Dr. Hanley acknowledged that he had not obtained or completed the evaluation as directed
by MPRP.
Show Cause Hearing — November 18, 2020

On September 28, 2020, Panel B issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show
Cause based on this alleged violation. The Panel conducted a show cause hearing on November
18, 2020, at which Dr, Hanley was represented by counsel. At the hearing, Dr, Hanley did not
dispute his refusal to comply with MPRP’s directive that he complete a specific evaluation. He
listed the terms and conditions of his Consent Order with which he had already complied,
acknowledged that he had not yet completed the evaluation, and stated that he was now willing to
fully comply with MPRP and complete the evaluation. The State emphasized that Dr. Hanley’s

failure to obtain the evaluation was an intentional choice, and that Dr. Hanley understood the
consequences of failing to comply with the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and the
conditions of his Mach 24, 2020 Consent Order.

Based upon all of the reports from MPRP and the information presented at the show cause
hearing, Panel B finds that Dr. Hanley failed to comply with the conditions of his March 24, 2020
Consent Order and his April 10, 2020 Participation Rehabilitation Agreement.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that Dr. Hanley violated the terms and conditions of the March 24, 2020
Consent Order by failing to comply with the terms of his MPRP Participant Rehabilitation

Agreement.

ORDER

It is, on an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that Dr. Hanley is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that except as modified by this Order, the March 24, 2020 Consent Order
remains in effect; and it is further

ORDERED that the minimum ONE (1) YEAR Probation imposed by the March 24, 2020
Consent Order is extended for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS'!. The minimum six-month
extension of Probation commences on March 24, 2021; and it is further

ORDERED that during probation, Dr. Hanley shall comply with the following terms and

conditions of probation:

1. Dr. Hanley shall reenroll and remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) until he fully and satisfactorily complies with
and completes all of MPRP’s requirements as follows:

' If Dr. Hanley’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be
tolled. :
(b)

(©)

(d)

()

(f)

(g)

Within 5 BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this Order, Dr. Hanley
shall contact MPRP to schedule a consultation for reenrollment;

Within 15 BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of this Order, Dr. Hanley
shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

Following reenrollment, Dr. Hanley shall comply with obtaining and
completing the specific evaluation required by MPRP;

Dr, Hanley shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

Dr. Hanley shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to
authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records
and files in a public order. A failure to, or withdrawal of consent, is a
violation of this Order;

Dr. Hanley shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and
to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the
Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent; and

Dr. Hanley’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of
this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Hanley shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is

further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is

further
ORDERED that if Dr. Hanley has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and
conditions of probation, Dr. Hanley may submit a written petition for termination of probation on
or after September 24, 2021. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated
through an order of a disciplinary panel. Dr. Hanley may be required to appear before the
disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant the
petition to terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Dr. Hanley has
successfully complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and if there are no pending
complaints related to the charges that led to the March 24, 2020 Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Hanley allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Dr. Hanley shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the
disciplinary pane! determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall
be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If the
disciplinary panel determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Hanley shall
be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that Dr.
Hanley has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary
panel may reprimand Dr. Hanley, place Dr. Hanley on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke Dr. Hanley’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine upon Dr. Hanley; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Hanley is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms and

conditions of this Order; and it is further
