IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

SUSAN ANDREWS, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D67708 * Case Number: 2218-0024A
CONSENT ORDER

Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
voted to summarily suspend the medical license of Susan Andrews, M.D., License
Number D67708 (the “Respondent”), pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov't Il § 10-
226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.), concluding that the public health, safety, or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action. Disciplinary Panel A also voted to
charge the Respondent under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine), (7) (habitually is intoxicated) and (9)(i) (provides professional services while
under the influence of alcohol).

Prior to the issuance of an Order of Summary Suspension and charges, the
Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel A finds:

1. At all times relevant, the Respondent was a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed in Maryland

on or about May 27, 2008.
2. At all times relevant to the Board’s investigative findings in this case, the
Respondent, an intensivist, was employed by Hospital A in Berlin, Maryland.’ The
Respondent is board-certified in critical care medicine and pulmonary disease.

3. On or about August 14, 2017, the Board received a Mandated 10-day Report
from Hospital A (the “complaint”) stating that the Respondent's privileges had been
summarily suspended for impairment at work.2

4. After receiving the complaint, the Board initiated an investigation. Shortly
thereafter, the Board notified the Respondent of its investigation and requested a written
response to the allegations.

5. On or about August 24, 2017, the Respondent submitted a written response to
the complaint, whereby she acknowledged that she had consumed a substance during
work hours.

6. Board staff subpoenaed the Respondent's quality assurance and medical files
from Hospital A and conducted interviews of the Respondent and several witnesses.

7. The Board’s investigation revealed that on or about July 26, 2017, the
Respondent had voluntarily undergone an evaluation by the Maryland Physicians
Health Program (“MPHP”) and MPHP had developed a comprehensive treatment plan.?
At the time, the Respondent was working as a physician at Hospital A.

8. Shortly thereafter, on or about August 2, 2017, the Respondent had been

assigned to care for eight patients at Hospital A, five of whom were intensive care

ee

+ In order to maintain confidentiality, facility, patient and employee names will not be used in this
document, but will be provided to the Respondent on request.

2 On or about September 7, 2017, Hospital A terminated the summary suspension and placed the
Respondent on a medical leave of absence.

3 To maintain confidentiality, specific information regarding the Respondent's evaluation by MPHP and
any subsequent treatment will not be referenced in this document.

2
patients. Hospital A conducted a urine toxicology screen that tested positive for alcohol,
and the Respondent acknowledged that she had been drinking during work hours.
9. On August 3, 2017, the Respondent signed a voluntary cessation of work
agreement with MPHP.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing facts, Panel A concludes that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this case, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov't. I] § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.). Panel A also
concludes that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II §14-404(a)(3)(ii); was habitually
intoxicated, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(7); and provided
professional services while under the influence of alcohol, in violation of Md. Code Ann.

11 § 14-404(a)(9)(i).

ORDER

 

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary

Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent's license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED,
and the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (‘MPRP”).4 Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to

schedule an initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, the

ee

4 Because the Respondent is currently enrolled in MPHP, this would necessitate a transfer to MPRP.
3
Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and
comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by
MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested or required by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board, including disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP.
The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol treatment records;

3. The Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that any treatment
provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and to the Board at least once every
three (3) months regarding his attendance, progress, payment of fees, and
recommendations as to the continuation, frequency, and/or termination of treatment.

The Respondent shall sign any consent forms required to authorize Disciplinary Panel A
and the MPRP to receive written reports from his treating mental health and health
professionals or any treatment providers.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if the MPRP finds that the Respondent is
safe to return to the practice of medicine and if the Respondent has complied with the
conditions above, the Respondent may submit a written petition to Disciplinary Panel A
requesting the termination of the suspension of the Respondent’s license.® If
Disciplinary Panel A terminates the suspension, Disciplinary Panel A may order any
conditions and additional terms on the Respondent it deems appropriate, including, but
not limited to, probation; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any terms or
conditions of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before the Board or Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that if, after the appropriate hearing, the Board or Panel A determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Consent
Order, the Board or Panel A may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on
probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent's license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or Panel A may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine

upon the Respondent; and it is further

Sse

5 The suspension will not be terminated if the Respondent's license expires, thus the Respondent shall
renew her license in order for the suspension to be terminated.

5
ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice
Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il §§ 14-101-14-702, and all laws and regulations
governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board’ s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014 Vol. & 2016 Supp.)

—
i214 [20 I]
Date Christine A. Farrelly

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

CONSENT
|, Susan Andrews, M.D., acknowledge that | am representing myself in these
proceedings. | have been advised of my right to be represented by the attorney of my
choice throughout proceedings before Disciplinary Panel A, including the right to
counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Consent Order. | have knowingly, willfully
and intelligently waived my right to be represented by an attorney before entering into

this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the purpose of resolving the issues raised
by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent Order and its
conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority
and jurisdiction of Disciplinary Panel A to initiate these proceedings and to issue and
enforce this Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse
ruling of a disciplinary panel of the Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after knowingly, willfully and intelligently waiving my
right to be represented by an attorney, voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully

understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

{ly Lf2b 7 Larnchues h
Date’ Susan facioak. M.D. £

NOTARY

STATE OF MARYLAND
CITY/COUNTY OF [yicemies

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 0 day of Daen'b<~ 201// , before me,
a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Susan
Andrews, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

7
 

 
  
   

MILTON GLEN CATLIN
Wicomico County

My Commission Expires
January 4, 2021

 
