Susan G. Andrews, M.D.

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Susan G. Andrews, M.D.
License Number: D67708
Case Number: 7723-0058

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice *
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D67708, effective immediately. |
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Health Occ.§ 14-401 et seq, and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective .
date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

1 understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A’) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation based on my violation of
my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement (“PRA”) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
(“PRP”) with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and the Order
After Show Cause Hearing dated November 22, 2019. On February 24, 2023, Panel A.
issued a second Order After Show Cause Hearing that suspended my license for a minimum
of one (1) year and required that I continue to participate in MPRP based on a second
instance of failure to comply with my PRA and PRP.

I acknowledge that I again violated my PRA and PRP and the February 24, 2023
Order After Show Cause Hearing.

Ihave decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the February 24, 2023
Order After Show Cause Hearing and to avoid prosecution for failing to comply with the
Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Susan G. Andrews, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

terms and conditions of the Order. I acknowledge that the February 24, 2023 Order After
Show Cause Hearing will remain and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board,
however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with
the conditions of the February 24, 2023 Order After Show Cause Hearing as long as I do
not have or possess an active medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the February 24, 2023 Order After Show Cause
Hearing. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the ri ght
to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf
and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to circuit court.

1 understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank and
Federation of State Medical Boards of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the
event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §
4-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes
a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A
or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been révoked.

Tacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Susan G. Andrews, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Very truly yours, #

Signature On File

Susan G. Aitdréws, M.D. ve

NOTARY

STATE OF Meira a

CITY/COUNTY OF \; rorewesedaie~

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Qc*day of OcAcher , 2023 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Susan G. Andrews, M.D.,

and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of ~
Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

 
  

Mo ales DOV Kar

: Wi ae i: Notary Public : cy
4 pn ok OS
up oS aegis © My commission expires: | | | | AA
“nny, te
ACCEPTANCE

L 5
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this Zt day of Octefee, 2023, I, Christine A.

Farrelly, accept Susan G. Andrew, M.D.’s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of her license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

Signature On File
ee
