IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

HEMANT SARIN, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D71738 * Case Number: 2218-0099A

KR KK KIKI IKI KIRK KIKI AIA KIA IIIA IB IIIA IIR IKE III IIB III IIIS III IAI KIA IIR IEEE IRI I,

FINAL ORDER OF REVOCATION OF MEDICAL LICENSE

On March 1, 2018, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) notified HEMANT SARIN, M.D. (the “Respondent’), License
Number .D71738, of its INTENT TO REVOKE the Respondent's license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Notice informed the Respondent that unless he
requested a hearing in writing within 30 days of the date of mailing of the Notice, Panel
A intended to sign this Final Order, which was enclosed. More than 30 days has
elapsed and the Respondent failed to request a hearing. Therefore, the revocation of
the Respondent's license to practice medicine is final.

The basis for Panel A’s action was pursuant to the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) § 14-401 et seg. (2014 Repl.
Vol. and 2017 Supp.), and Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.14(A).

The pertinent provisions of Health Occ. provide:

Health Occ. § 14-404.

Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a disciplinary panel,

on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may

reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a
license if the licensee:

(42) Fails to submit to a criminal history records check
under § 14—308.1 of this title[.]
Health Occ. § 14-308.1. Criminal history records check through
Central Repository.

(a) “Criminal Repository” defined. -- In this section, “Central
Repository” means the Criminal Justice Information System Central
Repository of the Department of Public Safety and Correctional
Services.

(b) Application required. -- An applicant, a licensee, or a certificate
holder shall apply to the Central Repository for a State and national
criminal history records check.

(c) Required submissions. -- As part of the application required under
subsection (b) of this section, an individual shall submit to the
Central Repository:

(1) Two complete sets of legible fingerprints taken on
forms approved by the Director of the Central
Repository and the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation;

(2) The fee authorized under § 10-221(b)(7) of the
Criminal Procedure Article for access to State criminal
history records; and

(3) The mandatory processing fee required by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal
history records check[.]

The pertinent provisions of the Board’s regulations, Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.14

provide:

14 Proposed Orders; ...

A. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the issuance of a charging
document with a proposed order which will go into effect if the
respondent fails to request a hearing.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following:
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice

medicine in Maryland on January 6, 2011, under License Number D71738. The
Respondent's license is currently active and is scheduled for renewal on September 30,
2019.

2. On or about September 19, 2017, the Respondent initiated the process of
applying for renewal of his medical license for the 2017 renewal period using the
Board's online renewal application process. When a licensee applies online to renew
his/her license, a notice appears that informs the licensee that the Board may not renew
a license if it has not received the licensee's Criminal History Record Check ("CHRC")
information, which includes the licensee's submission of his/her fingerprints to the
Criminal Justice Information Services ("CJIS") before attempting to complete the
renewal application.

3. The Respondent submitted his online application (the "Application") on or about
September 19, 2017, along with the required renewal fee. The Application the
Respondent signed states, "Failure to submit to a... [CHRC].. . may result in
disciplinary action." When submitting his online Application, the Respondent checked a
box attesting that he had completed his CHRC (Question 29d.).

4. By email dated November 1, 2017, Board staff informed the Respondent that the
Board had not received the CHRC he had attested to completing prior to filing the
renewal application. In part, the email stated, “The Board cannot use CHRC results
from another state or elsewhere in Maryland. Each entity/agency/employer has a
unique authorization code from CJIS and the FBI and those results sent directly to the
appropriate agency. The above codes are unique to the Board of Physicians. If you are

out of state or out of the country, please contact CJIS directly about how to obtain a
CHRC.” Board staff further informed the Respondent that he had ten business days to
submit the CHRC.
5. On or about November 13, 2017, the Respondent replied by email to Board
staff's November 1, 2017 email, stating that he had submitted a CHRC for the California
Medical Board and it had been approved, and requested the return of his renewal fee
and that his Maryland medical license be placed on “inactive” status.
6. By email dated November 20, 2017, Board staff again provided the Respondent
with the following information:
Results of a CHRC in another state or conducted elsewhere in Maryland
cannot be sent to the Board. Each entity/agency/employer has a unique
authorization code from CJIS and the FBI. The responses are sent
directly to the appropriate agency. CHRCs cannot be shared between
entities/agencies/employers.
Board staff attached instructions on how to complete a CHRC.
7. By email dated November 20, 2017, the Respondent reiterated that he had
answered affirmatively to Question 29d. on his Maryland renewal application regarding
his CHRC because he had submitted a CHRC to the California Medical Board. He
again requested that the Board refund his application fee, and that his license be placed
on inactive status.
8. To date, the Respondent has not submitted a CHRC to the Maryland Board.
9. Panel A’s investigation determined that the Respondent failed to submit his
fingerprints to CJIS in compliance with the CHRC process, as set forth in Health Occ. II

§ 14-308.1.
10. The Respondent's failure to complete his CHRC, as described above, constitutes
in whole or in part, a violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(42), Fails to submit to a
criminal records history check under § 14-308.1 of this title.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (42) (2014 Repl.
Vol. & 2017 Supp.).

ORDER

 

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the license of HEMANT SARIN, M.D. is REVOKED for ONE (1)
YEAR; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.

Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014 & 2017 Supp.).

oyfy low Chustine
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Exe

Maryland State Board of

 

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, the Respondent has the right
to seek judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review
shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and
Order. The cover letter accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date

the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in
the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-222 and Title 7,
Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

|If the Respondent files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and
should be served with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following

address:

Noreen M. Rubin, Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
