IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

PREETI ROUT, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D72850 * Case Number: 2016-0990B
e * * * * + * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the medical license of PREETI ROUT, M.D. (the
“Respondent’), License Number D72850. Disciplinary Panel B takes such action
pursuant to its authority under the Administrative Procedure Act (the “APA”), Md. Code
Ann., State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.), concluding that the
public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

On November 29, 2017, Disciplinary Panel B held a pre-deprivation hearing for
the Respondent to show cause why the Order for Summary Suspension of License to
Practice Medicine should not be issued.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS!

Based on information received by, and made known to Disciplinary Panel B of

the Board, and the investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known

to and available to Disciplinary B and the Office of the Attorney General, including the

‘The statements regarding the Respondent's conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
instances described below, Disciplinary Panel B has reason to believe that the following

facts are true:

1.

At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to
practice medicine in Maryland on August 1, 2011. Her license is scheduled to
expire on September 30, 2017. The Respondent holds an active license in the
District of Columbia and inactive licenses in Massachusetts and Virginia.

The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine and nephrology.

The Respondent was not employed as a physician at the time the Board received
a complaint regarding her.

On or about June 2, 2016, the Board received a complaint from an acquaintance
of the Respondent regarding the Respondent's conduct at a mutual friend’s
house. The complainant expressed concern that the Respondent may be a risk
to patients because of possible substance abuse.

Thereafter, the Board initiated an investigation. In furtherance of the Board’s
investigation, Board staff interviewed the complainant, former co-workers of the
Respondent and the Respondent. Board staff also obtained the Respondent's
quality assurance/personnel files from the Respondent's most recent former
employers.

On December 6, 2016, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath.
During the interview, the Respondent disclosed information that caused Board
staff to request that she sign a waiver to permit the Board to obtain health-related

medical records. The Respondent refused to sign the waiver.
10.

11.

The Board’s investigation raised concerns regarding the Respondent's current
ability to practice medicine in a safe and competent manner.2, On January 9,
2017, the Board issued to the Respondent a subpoena to be re-interviewed by
Board staff on January 27, 2017 at 12:00 p.m. In addition to the interview, Board
staff intended to hand-deliver to the Respondent a letter directing her to appear
at a toxicology screening facility immediately after the interview for a series of
screening tests.

On January 27, 2017 at approximately 9:30 a.m., Board staff received a
telephone call from the Respondent in which she questioned the need for a
follow-up Board interview. The Respondent told Board staff that she “did not see
the point in coming” and that she had felt “railroaded” during the first interview
because she was alone while being interviewed by two Board staff members.
Throughout the January 27, 2017 telephone call, the Respondent repeatedly
stated that she was not going to come to the interview later that day because she
did not feel comfortable. Board staff advised the Respondent that if she chose
not to appear for the interview, the Board may construe that as failure to
cooperate with a lawful Board investigation.

At one point during the telephone call, the Respondent told Board staff that she
had been out of town and did not receive the subpoena “until seven days ago.”
The Respondent requested the interview to be rescheduled.

A few minutes later, Board staff telephoned the Respondent to advise her that

her request to reschedule the interview had been denied. The Respondent

? To maintain confidentiality, the specific investigatory findings are not identified herein. The Respondent
may obtain from the Administrative Prosecutor the investigatory file.

3
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

responded that she lives over an hoyir away and had “things to do today” and
“other commitments.” The Respondent stated that she would appear for the
interview if a friend could be present during the interview. Board staff denied the
Respondent's request.

The Respondent failed to present herself at the Board on January 27, 2017.

On January 30, 2017, Board staff sent to the Respondent by next-day mail a
letter directing her to appear at the toxicology screening facility for testing on
February 1, 2017 at 1:00 p.m. The letter further informed the Respondent that
pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402(c), unreasonable refusal or failure to submit to
the screening constitutes prima facie evidence of a licensed medical
practitioner's inability to practice medicine, unless the Board finds that the failure
or refusal was beyond control of the licensee.

On January 30, 2017, Board staff spoke to the Respondent by telephone and
informed her that the Board had sent her correspondence that required her
immediate attention. The Respondent stated that she would look for the letter
and respond.

Board staff confirmed that the letter was delivered to the Respondent's home on
the morning of January 31, 2017.

On January 31, 2017, at 8:24 p.m., the Respondent emailed Board staff that she
had received the letter directing her to report for screening on February 1, 2017.
The Respondent further stated that she was traveling and was unable to return to

Baltimore by the next day.
17. On February 1, 2017, at 10:12 a.m., Board staff emailed the Respondent and
notified her that failure to appear for screening that day “could be construed as a
violation of Health Occ. § 14-402 and 44-404(a)(4), is professionally, physically
or mentally incompetent.”

18. On February 1, 2017 at 10:34 a.m., the Respondent emailed Board staff to
advise that she was “many hours away” in “a place where flights are not easily
available so | cannot book one last minute.”

19. The Respondent failed to appear on February 1, 2017 for toxicology screening.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the foregoing facts, Disciplinary Panel B concludes that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., State Gov't. § 10-226 (c)(2)(i).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing, it is, by a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel B,

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §
10-226(c)(2), the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland be
and is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent may request within ten (10) calendar days an
evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within thirty (30) calendar days of the
request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;

and it is further
ORDERED that on presentation of this Order, the Respondent SHALL
SURRENDER to the Board’s Compliance Analyst, the following items:
(1) the Respondent's original Maryland License D72850; and
(2) the Respondent's current renewal certificate; and be it further
ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.&
2015 Supp.); and it is further
ORDERED that this Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice
Medicine is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101

et seq. and § 4-333 (2014).

 
    

ii{z4]z017

Date Christine A. Farrelly
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians
