IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

PREETI ROUT, M.D. a MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS:

License Number: D72850 * Case Number: 7723-0048B

* * * * * x * x k * * * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING .

On December 26, 2017, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) and Preeti Rout; M.D. (the “Respondent”) entered into
a Consent Order (“Consent Order”). On April 6, 2023, Panel B issued a Violation of
Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause, which charged the Respondent with violating
the terms and conditions of the Consent Order.

On or about April 6, 2023, the Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show
Cause was mailed to the Respondent by regular U.S. mail at her mailing address of record,
in accordance with COMAR 10.32.02.03E(7). The Violation of Consent Order and Notice
to Show Cause notified the Respondent that the show cause hearing would be held on June
28, 2023, at 11:15am.

On June 20, 2023, the Board sent an email to the Respondent, stating that the show
cause hearing was going to be held by video-conference on the Zoom platform and that, on
June 27, 2023, the Board would email the Respondent the Zoom link for the hearing. On
June 27, 2023, the Board sent the Respondent an email with the Zoom link for the show
cause hearing and further told the Respondent to “[p]lease sign in 10 to 15 minutes before

11:15 a.m.”
 

On June 28, 2023, after waiting for the Respondent for approximately one hour, the
show cause hearing began at 12:14 p.m., and was conduct by video-conference on the
Zoom platform. The Respondent did not attend or participate in the show cause hearing.
The Respondent did not sign onto the Zoom link to attend the show cause hearing, did not
appear in-person at the hearing, did not request a postponement, anid did fiet have legal
counsel represent her at the show cause hearing. An Assistant Attorney General from the
Office of the Attorney General’s Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Unit
appeared as the Administrative Prosecutor for the State and presented the State’s case.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B makes the following factual findings:
Background/Licensing Information

1, The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine by the Board on

August 1, 2011, under License Number D72850. The Respondent retained continuous

licensure until September 30, 2017, when her license expired.

2. The Respondent’s license was administratively reinstated on January 17,
2023.
Prior Disciplinary History
3. In June 2016, the Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after

receiving a complaint regarding the Respondent’s conduct. The Respondent, however,
failed to cooperate with the Board’s investigation.

Charges Under the Maryland Medical Practice Act, 2017
4. On or about June 7, 2017, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against the
Respondent, alleging that she was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); was professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); and failed to separate with a lawful
investigation conducted by the Board or disciplinary panel, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33).

5. The Respondent did not renew her medical license during the 2017 renewal
period. Consequently, the Respondent’s medical license expired, effective September 30,
2017. The Board, however, retained jurisdiction over this matter under Health Occ. § 14-
403(a).!

Order for Summary Suspension, 2017

6. While the above disciplinary charges were pending, Panel B, on or about
November 14, 2017, notified the Respondent of its intent to summarily suspend her medical
license pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2)(i) (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.).

7. On November 29, 2017, upon finding that the Respondent’s contioned
practice constituted a substantial risk to the public health, safety or welfare, Panel B issued
an Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, summarily suspending
the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland.

Consent Order, 2017

1 Health Oce. § 14-403(a) states, “Unless a disciplinary panel agrees to accept the surrender of a license,

certification, or registration of an individual the Board regulates, the individual may not surrender the
license, certification, or registration nor may the license, certification, or registration lapse by operation of
law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.”

3
8. On December 26, 2017, Panel B and the Respondent entered into the
Consent Order, in which Panel B concluded that the Respondent was guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii); is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); and failed to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the
Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33).

9. Under the Consent Order, Panel B suspended the Respondent’s medical
license until such time as she demonstrated that she was competent to practice medicine.”
Also, under the Consent Order, the following terms and conditions were ordered:

L. Within 10 days, the Respondent shall enroll in [a Board- -
approved program, referred to infra as the “Program” ].
The Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with [the Program]. The
Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate andcomply .
with all of [the Program’s] referrals, rules and
requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s), and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered with [the Program], and shall fully participate |
and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by [the Program];

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written
release/consent forms required by the Board and [the
Program]. The Respondent shall sign the ©
release/consent forms to authorize the Board to
authorize [the Program] to make verbal and written
disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any
and all [Program] records and files possessed by [the

2 Because the Respondent’s license expired in September 2017, and was not renewed, Panel B tolled the
imposition of the suspension and terms and conditions until such time as the Respondent reinstated her
medical license. See COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).
Program]. The Respondent shall also sign any written .
release/consent forms to authorize [the Program] to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s
current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and
written information concerning the Respondent and to _
ensure that [the Program] is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol treatment
records; :

3. The Respondent shall be responsible for assuring that ”
any treatment provider(s) submit reports to the
[Program] and to the Board at least once every three (3)
months regarding her attendance, progress, payment of
fees, and recommendations as to the continuation,
frequency, and/or termination of treatment. The ©
Respondent shall sign any consent forms required to
authorize Disciplinary Panel B and the [Program] to
receive any written reports from her treating mental
health providers and health professionals or any
treatment providers. :

The Consent Order also states:

ORDERED that . . . if the disciplinary panel determines that
the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition .
[ ] of this Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel
may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on
probation with appropriate terms and conditions or suspend or
revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland. The Board or a disciplinary panel may, in addition _
to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine upon the Respondenty.].

Post-Consent Order
10. On or about September 29, 2022, the Respondent applied to the Board for

reinstatement of her medical license.
11. On January 17, 2023, the Respondent’s Maryland medical license was
reinstated, at which point the terms and conditions of the Consent Order went into effect.

12. By letter, dated January 18, 2023, the Board notified the Respondent that its
probation department would be monitoring the terms and conditions of her Consent Order.
The Board advised the Respondent that she was responsible for timely.compliance with all
terms and conditions of the Consent Order.

15. Thereafter, the Respondent failed to comply with Program requirements,
including, inter alia, failing to comply with the Participant Rehabilitation “Agreement.
Overall, the Respondent violated conditions one, two, and three of the Consent Order.3

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that the Respondent failed to comply with conditions 1, 2, and 3

of the Order section of the Consent Order, which went into effect on December 26, 2017.
ORDER

It is, by Board Disciplinary Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the Respondent Preeti Rout, M.D.’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland is REVOKED; and it is further |

ORDERED that this is a public document.

oseulpozs Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, Eneulive Directo)

Maryland State Board o sicians

3 For privacy reasons, details of the violations of the Consent Order are not disclosed in
this document.
