IN THE MATTER OF " BEFORE THE

MICHAEL A. BASCO, M.D. es MARYLAND STATE
Respondent x BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D72935 vd Case Number: 2014-0045

* * * * * * * * ke * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

On September 29, 2014, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the “Board”) charged Michael A. Basco, M.D., an obstetrician/gynecologist, with
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii). Disciplinary Panel B also charged Dr. Basco with sexual misconduct against
patients or key third parties. See COMAR 10.32.17. The charges alleged that Dr. Basco touched
two patients in a sexual manner and acted in an inappropriate manner toward three coworkers,
The case was forwarded to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for an evidentiary
hearing and a proposed decision. Prior to Dr. Basco’s evidentiary hearing, the Administrative
Law Judge (the “ALJ”) denied Dr. Basco’s motion in imine to exclude State’s exhibits 2 through
16, which concerned Dr. Basco’s prior disciplinary history.

Following an eight-day hearing, the ALJ issued a proposed decision on July 23, 2015.
The ALJ found that Dr. Basco was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
and sexual misconduct against Patient B by inappropriately handling her breasts, lowering her
pants, and commenting on her appearance. The ALJ also found that Dr. Basco acted
unprofessionally by placing ice down the pants of a co-worker, Employee A. The ALJ did not
find that Dr. Basco committed unprofessional conduct or sexual misconduct against Patient A,

nor did the ALJ find that Dr. Basco committed unprofessional conduct in his actions related to
Employee B or Employee C. The ALJ recommended: a (1) six-month suspension; (2) one-year
probation; (3) evaluation as recommended by the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program;
and (4) enrollment in an ethics course. Both the State and Dr. Basco filed exceptions. On
October 14, 2015, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board (“the Panel”) heard arguments on the
parties’ exceptions.

FINDINGS OF FACT

The Panel adopts the ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact. The ALJ’s Proposed Findings of
Fact (pages 8-26) are incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set forth in
full. See attached ALJ Proposed Decision, Exhibit 1. The Panel also adopts the ALJ’s
discussion set forth on pages 26-51, except as otherwise provided herein. The factual findings
were proven by a preponderance of the evidence,

To summarize, at his first employer (“Physician A’s office”), with respect to Employee A
and Patient B, the ALJ found that Dr. Basco engaged in unprofessional conduct. The ALJ found
that Dr. Basco placed ice down Employee A’s pants (the “ice incident”). Concerning Patient B,
Dr. Basco directed and assisted her in lifting her shirt and placed a stethoscope on her chest.
While performing this examination, Dr. Basco handled Patient B’s breasts while positioning the
stethoscope. He lowered Patient B’s pants, exposing her buttocks, felt her spine in several
places, and, after pulling up her pants, told her “you look cute and everything is fine.” The Panel
adopts these findings.

The ALJ found that there was insufficient evidence to establish unprofessional conduct
based upon the allegations of Patient A, which occurred at Dr. Basco’s second employer’s office.

Because Patient A had been under the anesthetic Ketamine when alleged sexual contact
investigation was not an issue before the ALJ and is not an issue before the Panel. The Panel,
like the ALJ, makes its determination of factual findings and conclusions of law regarding Dr.
Basco’s alleged unprofessional conduct and sexual misconduct based on the testimony of
witnesses and admission of exhibits at the OAH hearing.
Vv. State’s Exceptions

The State argues that the Panel should reject the ALJ’s conclusion that there was
insufficient evidence to find that Dr. Basco sexually violated Patient A. The Panel declines to do
so. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s finding that there is insufficient evidence to prove sexual
misconduct because Patient A was under the anesthetic Ketamine when the sexual abuse was
alleged. The State also argues that Dr. Basco’s outburst related to Employee B was
unprofessional conduct. The Board adopts the ALJ’s finding that this outburst was not
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

The Panel concludes that Dr. Basco is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine in violation of § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article based on his
inappropriate sexual touching of Patient B and his putting ice down Employee A’s pants. The
Panel also concludes that Dr. Basco’s conduct related to Patient B was sexual misconduct in
violation of COMAR 10.32.17.03. The Panel concludes that Dr. Basco’s conduct related to
Patient A, Employee B, and Employee C does not constitute unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine.

SANCTION

The Panel has considered Dr. Basco’s current sexual violation committed against Patient
B and the unprofessional conduct related to the ice incident with Employee A. The Panel also

has considered Dr. Basco’s prior Maryland disciplinary history including (1) a reciprocal action

11
based on a medical recordkeeping violation and (2) a nine month suspension followed by
eighteen months probation with terms and conditions based on unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, failing to meet the standard of care, failing to keep adequate medical
records, and practicing medicine with an unauthorized person. The Panel declines to assign any
weight to Exhibits 2 and 3 because these disciplinary actions by other states occurred outside of
Maryland, over 12 years ago, and prior to Dr. Basco’s receiving his Maryland license. The Panel
adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ with modifications. The Panel will suspend Dr.
Basco’s license for six months followed by one year of probation. The Panel will also require
Dr. Basco to be evaluated through the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (the
“MPRP”), and, if necessary to be enrolled in the MPRP for monitored treatment. In addition, the
Panel will require that Dr. Basco take an ethics course focused on boundary issues.
ORDER

It is, by an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that fifteen days after the date of this Order, the license of Michael A.
Basco, M.D. is SUSPENDED for a minimum of SIX MONTHS and until Dr. Basco has fully
satisfactorily complied with the following requirements:

Ls Dr. Basco shall complete an ethics course pertaining to sexual boundary
violations. Dr. Basco shall submit to the Board written documentation regarding
the particular course he proposes to fulfill this condition. The Board reserves the
right to require Dr. Basco to provide further information regarding the course he
proposes, and further reserves the right to reject his proposed course and require
submission of alternative proposals. The Board will approve a course only if it
deems the curriculum and the duration of the course adequate to fulfill Dr.
Basco’s education needs. The course may not be used to fulfill continuing
medical education credits required for license renewal. Dr. Basco shall be
responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the course requirements and for
submitting written documentation to the Board of his successful completion of the

course;

2: Within fifteen days, Dr. Basco shall enroll in the Maryland Professional

12
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) for evaluation and, if necessary, treatment;

Once enrolled in the MPRP, Dr. Basco shall undergo an evaluation by the MPRP
or its agents to determine whether Dr. Basco is able to appropriately manage his
behavior with regard to his interactions staff and patients professionally, and what
conditions, if any, are appropriate for his return to practice;

Dr. Basco shall fully cooperate in the evaluation and, if necessary, treatment,
including complying with all of the MPRP’s recommendations. Dr. Basco shall
provide the MPRP with all records and information requested by the MPRP, and
Dr. Basco shall sign any written release/consent forms to ensure that the MPRP is
able to obtain all records and information including treatment information and
mental health records and information, necessary for complete and thorough
evaluation and treatment;

Should the MPRP recommend it, Dr. Basco may be required to enter into a
Board-monitored Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. Dr. Basco shall fully and
timely cooperate and comply with all the MPRP recommendations, referrals,
rules, and requirements including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of
any Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered into with the MPRP, including any treatment and evaluations
recommended by the MPRP;

Dr. Basco shall sign any written release/consent forms, and update them, as
required by the Panel and the MPRP. Specifically, Dr. Basco shall sign any
written release/consent forms required by the Panel to authorize the MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Panel, including disclosure of any and
all MPRP records and files.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that once the MPRP completes its evaluation, the Panel

will review the evaluation and meet with Dr. Basco and the administrative prosecutor. The Panel

will then determine whether to terminate the suspension based on whether Dr. Basco presents a

risk to patient safety; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Panel declines to terminate the suspension, then Dr. Basco shall

continue treatment with the MPRP until such time that the Panel determines that he is not a risk

to patient safety; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Panel votes to terminate the suspension, the Panel will determine

appropriate probationary terms and conditions, if any, to be imposed; and it is further;

13
ORDERED that when the Panel votes to terminate the suspension of Dr. Basco’s license,
Dr. Basco shall be placed on PROBATION for a minimum of one year from the date of the
termination of the suspension and Dr. Basco shall fully, timely, and satisfactorily cooperate and
comply with all terms and conditions imposed by the disciplinary panel upon termination of Dr.
Basco’s suspension; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Basco fails to comply with any condition of the suspension,
probation, or this Final Decision and Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel, after notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may impose any sanction which the Board or Panel may have imposed
in this case under section 14-404(a) or 14-405.1 of the Health Occupations Article, including
additional probation, a reprimand, suspension, revocation, or a civil monetary penalty; and it is
further

ORDERED that after one year from the date of his commencement of his probation, Dr.
Basco may submit a written petition to the Board requesting termination of the probation. After
consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of Disciplinary
Panel A. Disciplinary Panel A will grant the termination if Dr. Basco has fully and satisfactorily
complied with all of the terms of probation; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Basco is responsible for any costs incurred in fulfilling the terms of
this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.

Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014),

[24-39 “a Cit», k ) le, Z &
Date Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Directo

Maryland State Board of Physicians
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408(a), Dr. Basco has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within 30 days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition
for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Dr. Basco files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
David S. Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
‘* BEFORE BARRIET C, HELFAND,

MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF
PHYSICIANS * AN ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
y. * OF THE MARYLAND OFFICE
MICHAEL A. BASCO, M.D., * OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

RESPONDENT * OAH No.: DHMB-MBP-71-15-04194
LICENSE No.: D72935 * MBP No: 2014-0045
* * * * * * * * * * * *
PROPOSED DECISION
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
ISSUES
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT
DISCUSSION

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
PROPOSED DISPOSITION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE
On September 29, 2014, a disciplinary panel of the Maryland State Board of Physicia&g
(Board or MBP) issued Charges against Michael A. Basco, M.D., (Respondent) for alleged acts

in violation of the Medical Practices Act (Act). Md. Code Ann., Health Occ, §§ 14-101 through
the Board alleges that the Respondent

JO
IISA

Eo 2 ur oy
G3IAIIO3y
te Hd

S$
40 out

14-507 and 14-601 through 14-608 (2014). Specifically,
violated section 14-404(a)(3) of the Act. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3) (2014).

The Board forwarded the charges to the Health Occupations Prosecutions and Litigation Division
(HOPL), Office of the Attorney General, State of Maryland (State) for prosecution.

On February 6, 2015, the matter was transmitted to the Office of Administrative Hearings
(OAR) for a hearing. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 (2014). On March 4, 2015, I
conducted a Prehearing Conference at the OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland. Robert J. Gilbert,
Deputy Counsel, HOPL, Administrative Prosecutor, represented the State, and Thomas L. Doran,

SUVA YY
Esquire, represented the Respondent. On March 9, 2015, Lissued a Prehearing Conference
Report and Scheduling Order.

On March 23, 2015, the Respondent filed a Motion in Limine (Motion), requesting that I
exclude a number of items on the State? s exhibit list, and any evidence regarding prior
disciplinary actions against the Respondent. As a result of the filing of the mc I convened a
telephone prehearing conference with counsel to discuss scheduling responses to the Motion and
converting an upcoming hearing date initially planned for the merits to a hearing on the Motion,
Following the discussion and scheduling changes, on April 13, 2015, the State filed an
Opposition to the Respondent’s Motion, and on April 20, 2015, the Respondent filed a Reply
Memorandum i in support of the Motion. On April 28, 2015, I conducted a hearing on the Motion
at the OAH. On May 8, 2015, Lissued a ruling on the Motion. ;

, __ From June 1, 2015 through June 10, 2015, I held a hearing on the merits at the OAH.

Mi. Code Ann., Health Occ, § 14-405(a) (2014); Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR)

10. 32, 02.04. Mr. Doran tepresented the Respondent, who was present, Mr. Gilbert represented
the State..

Procedure in this case is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the OAH. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’ t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2014); Code of
Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01.

ISSUES
I. Did the Respondent engage in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,

in violation of the Act; and, if so,

2 What sanction(s) are appropriate?
Exhibits

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE
—————_—_ EE EVIDENCE

I admitted the following exhibits into evidence on behalf of the State:

State #1

State #2
State #3
State #4
State #5
State #6
State #7

State #8

State #9
State #10

State #11
_ State #12

State #13
State #14

State #15

State #16

MBP Practitioner Profile System-Respondent’s Licensing Information

Agreed Order, Texas State Board of Medical Examiners, dated August 15,
2003

Consent Agreement and Order, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, State
Board of Medicine, dated October 10, 2004

Agreed Order, Texas Medical Board, dated August 26, 2011

Final Order Adopting Hearing Examiner’s Adjudication and Order,
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, State Board of Medicine, dated August
31, 2012

Consent Order, MBP, dated November 20, 2012

Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, MBP,
dated May 29, 2013

Letter from MBP to Respondent, dated June 12, 2013

Notice of Out-of-State Suspension Order, Medical Board of California,
dated June 20, 2013

Notice of Summary Action to Suspend License, District of Columbia
Department of Health, Board of Medicine, dated July 10, 2013

Consent Order, MBP, dated February 28, 2014

Termination of Out-of-State Suspension Order, Medical Board of
California, dated April 8, 2014

Agreed Order, Texas Medical Board, dated June 27, 2014
Decision and Order, Medical Board of California, dated August 27, 2014

Consent Order, District of Columbia Board of Medicine, dated July 10,
2014

Corrected Final Order Adopting Hearing Examiner’s Adjudication and
Order, dated November 14, 2014

3
State #17

State #18

State #19
State #20
State #21
State #22

State #23

State #24

’ State #25

State #26
State #27
State #28
State #29
State #30
State #31

State #32

State #33

Complaint Form, MBP, received April 18, 2013

Transcript, Telephonic Interview With EB Patient A), dated

May 28, 2013

Cheverly Police Department, Incident Report, dated April 11, 2013

Interview with (END dated August 20, 2013

. Medical Records, Patient A, received May 23, 2013

Letter from Respondent to Dana Mullen, Compliance Analyst, MBP,
dated May 22, 2013

(cit: fom ii RS :0 Respondent,
dated August 24,

Medical Records- TR (Patient By!

     
 
  
  
 

 

Letter from Esquire, to Dr. dated .
October 31, 2012; letter To Whom it May Concern from Patient B, dated
August 1, 2012; Statement fro: dated August 15, 2012;

Statement from eed, W , 2012?

Transcript of Interview > ora. dated December 19, 2013
Transcript of Interview wit (MMB dated December 19,2013

Transcript of Interview with Patient B, dated December 20, 2013
Transcript of Interview with Dr. QJM. dated January 16, 2014

Transcript of Interview with Respondent, dated March 18, 2014
Memorandum of Telephone Interview with MD cteted Aprils,
2014 .

 

Letter from Dana Mullen, Compliance Analyst, MBP, to Donovan
Dietrick, M.D., dated April 23, 2014, with attached Focus of Review,
dated April 23, 2014 :

Curriculum Vitae, Donovan Dietrick, M.D.

' Patient B is also known as

A copy of these documents was accompani 4 Tax sheet, dated November 6, 2013, from (aie of Dr,
MAD oie, to Dana Mullen, MBP investigator.

4
State #34 Letter from Donovan Dietrick, M.D., to Dana Mullen, Compliance
Analyst, MBP, dated May 16, 2014 (parts redacted)

State #35 MBP Report of Investigation, undated

State #36 American Medical Association Opinion 9.045—Physicians with
Disruptive Behavior, issued December 2000

State #37 The Joint Commission Sentinel Event Alert, Issue 40, July 9, 20083—
Behaviors that undermine a culture of safety

State #38 Charges Under the Act, dated September 29, 2014
State #39 (not offered)?

“State #40 Letter from QD: v:. GRP vncatca
State #41 (not offered)

State #42 Cease and Desist Order, MBP Case Nos: 2007-0448; 2010-0304; and
2011-0117

State #43 State of New Jersey, Department of Law & Public Safety, Division of
Consumer Affairs, State Board of Medical Examiners—In the matter of

the Suspension or Revocation of the License of  .,
Final Order, filed November 12, 2014

State #44 (not admitted)
State #45 Leave Request Form, dated June 1, 2012

State #46 Letter from QAR esouire, TD CNM, dated

October 31, 2012

State #47 Spread Sheet, Billing Information, June 13-20, 2012

T admitted the following exhibits into evidence on behalf of the Respondent:
Resp. #1 (not offered)*

 

? State #39 was not offered into evidence and was not included in the case materials; State #41 was not offered, but
is included in the case file and so labeled; and State #44 was not admitted, but is included in the case file and so
labeled.

“Resp, #1 was not offered into evidence, but was included in the case materials and is labeled as such; Resp. #8 was
withdrawn from evidence and is not included in the case materials; Resp. ## 16, 18, and 19 were not offered and are

5
fo
occurred, the ALJ found her perceptions unreliable. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s findings that
there was insufficient evidence to support allegations pertaining to Patient A.

The ALJ also found that there was insufficient evidence to establish unprofessional
conduct based upon the pertaining to Employees B and C at Physician A’s office. The ALJ
found that Dr. Basco became agitated in the presence of Employee B and shook her desk and
kicked the wall. The ALJ concluded that these actions did not rise to the level of unprofessional
conduct. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s conclusion. Dr. Basco was also charged based on
allegations by Employee C that there was a list of patients who refused to see Dr. Basco and that
he routinely saw patients without a chaperone. The ALJ found insufficient evidence to support
these allegations and the Panel adopts the ALJ’s finding that there was no unprofessional
conduct with regard to Employee C as alleged in Paragraph 29 of the charging document.

UNDISPUTED ISSUES

Before addressing the exceptions filed by the parties, the Panel notes that Dr. Basco did
not file any exceptions pertaining to the ice incident with Employee A. The ALJ found that
placing ice down Employee A’s pants was unprofessional behavior that degrades the atmosphere
of professionals in the office, diminishes the safety of a medical environment, and reflects poorly
on the medical profession. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s undisputed findings of facts, conclusion
of law, and discussion related to this incident.

The Panel also notes that the State did not file any exceptions to the ALJ’s failure to find
a violation related to Employee C’s allegations of unprofessional conduct. The charges alleged
that patients complained to Employee C about Dr. Basco’s inappropriate comments, that the
practice kept a list of patients who refused to see him, and that he routinely saw patients without

achaperone. The ALJ found the charges were not supported by the evidence. The Panel adopts
Resp. #2
Resp. #3

Resp. #4
Resp. #5

Resp. #6
Resp. #7

Resp. #8
Resp. #9
Resp. #10

Resp. #11
Resp. #12
Resp. #13
Resp. #14
Resp. #15
Resp. #16
Resp. #17
Resp. #18
Resp. #19
Resp. #20

Testimony

Letter from Acting Human Resources Manager,
> MBP, dated March.19, 2015 ae

Affidavit of QM .D., dated May 31,2015, with attached

statement, undated
Statement of| GD ncctea
Statement o: undated

Statement of (RBI dated January 6, 2014

Letter fro: to MBP, dated September 25, 2014; Statement
of, faxed November | 1, 2014

(withdrawn)

Letter from ( ahi | To Whom It May Concern, dated April 15, 2015

Letter from Steven J. Adashek, M.D., FACOG, To Whom It May
Concern, dated April 16, 2015 (with redactions)

Curriculum Vitae, Steven J. Adashek, M.D., FACOG
Medical Records, Patient A

Medical Records, Patient B

Medical Records, Patient B

‘Respondent’s Curriculum Vitae

(not offered)

: Medical Records, Patient B

(not offered)
(not offered)

Diagram

The State presented the following witnesses:

Patient A
Dana Mullen, Compliance Analyst, MBP

 

  

lestified by telephone.
7
PROPOSED FINDINGS OF FACT

Having considered all of the evidence presented, I find the following facts by a
preponderance of the evidence:
Background Information
i. At all times relevant to this proceeding, the Respondent was a licensed physician
in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland on August 11, 201 1, under License No. D72935,
2: In addition to licensure in Maryland, the Respondent practiced medicine and/or
was licensed to practice medicine i in Texas, California, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and the
District of Columbia.
3. The Respondent is board certified in Ob/Gyn,
4. Since October 2013, the Respondent has worked as a computer medical
healthcare consultant and product manager in the field of Medical Informatics, In his
current position, although he no longer engages ina clinical medical practice, the

Respondent requires a medical license to take an exam to become board certified in
Medical Informatics’

Re i? joyment in Dr. sO: 2
5. Dr ee a physician with an office in Waldorf, Maryland, specializing in
Ob/Gyn. Dr. GERRI is board eligible, but not board certified.
6. On or about December 15, 2011, the Respondent began working in Dr. Rie;
" medical practice. Dr, Gv entes to expand his practice and open an ambulatory

surgery center. Both the Respondent and Dr GBB rac privileges at ( coe
| Sanam ES, perform surgery and deliveries. Dr Qs
employed (sommes 5 as a Certified Nurse Midwife (CNM), but Ms was not
eligible for privileges at Hand was restricted to seeing patients in the office.

7 In addition to the Respondent and Ms a Dr. ep. employed office
staff for administrative and medical support duties, Sora the office manager,
performed scheduling and some billing functions, in addition to other office
administrative work. A number of medical assistants also worked in the office to assist
the physicians and Ms QB ith patient care,

8. Dr. Gi: office. had an unwritten policy of requiring that a chaperone
accompany a physician performing an examination of a patient. When the Respondent
arrived at the practice, he instituted the assignment of certain medical assistants to
accompany each physician, When a particular medical assistant was not available, a
physician could recruit any other member of the office staff to chaperone an examination,
9. Office notes and records in the practice identify which provider saw a particular
patient, but do not identify whether a chaperone was present, or who served as a
chaperone.

10, 1, s office contained a break room where employees could eat lunch
and socialize. In the break room, employees frequently engaged in outlandish behavior,
telling off-color jokes and performing lewd dances and movements. One employee in .
particular, ec a medical assistant, was often at the forefront of the action.
11. » i: office was generally not run in a financially responsible manner
and was not adept in the use of advanced electronic medical records, In some cases, bills

for materials and tax obligations were left unpaid.

—
“Ice” Incident

12. On August 14, 2012, the Respondent was sitting in the break room, holding a cup
of ice. Ms, az! along SS aameaRies. aggaasiaas other medical
assistants, was also in the room with the Respondent. The employees had been joking,
13. At one point, Ms, SB viii speaking on a phone, bent over a refrigerator in
the break room to store an item, Ms, (a. Posterior was close to the Respondent,
and the Respondent, who was leaning back in his chair and laughing, impulsively took a
Piece of ice from his mouth and, extending the waistband of Ms. (ae: pants, placed
the ice down her pants. Ms. GP... the room.

14. Following the incident, Ms. ae... Ms QB eported their observations
to Ms. MIR wino asked them to document the incident in writing. Ms MID also spoke
to Ms. RRB 2bon: the matter,

“Desk” Incident

15. Sometime in 2012, the Respondent entered Ms. ae » Office while she was
speaking with Ms.” The Respondent was extremely upset about an office matter,
He shut the door and began to yell and Curse, shook Ms. ae desk loudly, and kicked
the wall. The Respondent was not directing his anger directly towards either Ms. cy
or Ms, Siig

16. Ms, GPs Startled by the Respondent’s behavior, and left the office for the

day, The Respondent later apologized to Ms. ap for his outburst, Ms, QD accepted
the Respondent’s apology.

Sc
° None of the witnesses were able to. provide an exact date for the “desk” incident,
10
Patient B

17. Patient B was a twenty-seven year old (date of birth: April 10, 1985) obstetrical
patient at the office who primarily saw Ms. hs her medical practitioner,

18. On March 6, 2012, during Patient B's initial prenatal visit to Dr a ;
office, she answered questions on a form entitled “Maryland Prenatal Risk Assessment”
(MPRA). The MPRA recorded information about Patient B, including education,
languages spoken, payment Status, obstetrical history and any psychosocial or medical
risks. On the MPRA, Patient B indicated that during the past six months she had used
marijuana.

19. On or about April 3, 2012, Patient B was admitted (EBD eving experienced
extreme nausea in the course of her pregnancy, At admission, Patient B was diagnosed
with Hypokalemia, Severe Anemia, Dehydration, and Hyperemesis Graviddrum. Patient
B’s admitting physician was the Respondent. On admission, Patient B denied marijuana
use, .

20. oie, Patient B was treated with intravenous hydration, Zofran (for nausea),
and Potassium, Patient B was discharged from MB on April 6, 2012, but returned
home with a peripherally: inserted central catheter (PICC line) to continue the
administration of medication, Patient B’s PICC line was Temoved on or about April 26,
2012.

21. On April 10, 2012, Patient B tetumed to the practice for an office visit and was
seen by Ms, oe) At this time, Patient B was feeling much better on the Zofran, with

no nausea or vomiting,

11
22. During Patient B’s next office visit, on May 9, 2012, when she was seen by Dr.
ile she was sent for several tests, including a drug test to detect cannabinoid use.
The test results, received on May 14, 2012, were Positive for cannabinoid.

" 23. Patient B’s next two visits, on May 18 and 30, 2012, with Dr Ms.

a respectively, were uneventful.!!
24. On June 18, 2012, Patient B retumed to the office for a routine visit and was seen
by the Respondent. On this day, Ms QB was out of the office on leave. This was
Patient B’s first office visit with the Respondent. Patient B’s weight, body mass index
and blood pressure were measured by Ms. Sat the beginning of the visit. Ms.
Ge sia not remain in the examining room as a chaperone.

25. During his examination of Patient B, the Respondent directed and assisted Patient
B in lifting her shirt and placed a stethoscope on her chest, In the process, the
Respondent handled Patient B’s breasts. The Respondent also lifted Patient B down from
the examining table and had her face away from him, Standing, as he lowered her pants,
felt her spine in several Places and made a remark about her appearance, /
26. During the visit, the Respondent discussed the May 9, 2012 cannabis positive
drug test with Patient B and warned her that if she had another Positive cannabis result,
she would be discharged from the practice.
27. Patient B quickly left the office, appearing angry and upset, without making
arrangements for a routine two-week follow-up visit or for taking a planned glucose
tolerance test (GTN. : ‘ ,

ee

” Office notes indicate that when Dr. BB eccives Patient B’s lab results on May 14, 2012, he wrote “Pls,
instruct pt. to stop smoking marijuana!” The note also indicates that Ms. delivered the message to Patient B
on May 15, 2012, (Resp. #17)

12
28. Patient B did not return to the office until August 1, 2012, when she was seen by
Ms QB Ms QB sica Patient B why she waited so long to schedule her

, appointment and chided her for the lapse in care. At the visit, Ms. oe ordered several
tests, including the GTT,
29. When Patient B Stopped by the reception desk to schedule her next appointment,
the receptionist informed her that she would be next seen by the Respondent. Patient B
told the receptionist that she refused to be examined by the Respondent, and proceeded to
explain her reasons. At that time, the receptionist Suggested that Patient B write down
‘the information Patient B was verbally conveying s her,
30. Patient B proceeded to Sit in the office lobby area and write a letter directed” To
whom it may concem,” dated August 1, 2012, in which she described, in great detail, her
recollection of events that occurred during her June 18, 2012 office visit with the
Respondent. Patient B’s letter included the following:

On June 18, 2012 I was for the first time a patient of [the
. Respondent] at 27 weeks Pregnant. [The Respondent] did his

entire examination WITHOUT a nurse Present assisting him.
During this examination [the Respondent] insisted that he check

with the stethoscope so I myself lifted my breast for him to do so.
He then told me he needed me to remove my breast from my bra in
order to do the exam efficiently. I removed my breast from the bra

breast with his own hand saying to me “It’s okay, I can do it.” He
then proceeded to move the stethoscope from one side of my

facing him as he sat in the short rolling doctot’s chair, He then
began to press on my lower back with his thumbs. After pressing
13
about two times on each side of my spine, he pulled my pants

down exposing only my buttocks, He then continued to press on

my lower back apx 3-4 more times. He then pulled my pants back

up. As I turned around to face him he remarked “you look cute

and everything is fine,” (emphasis in original) (State #25 and Resp.

#17)
The letter went on to explain that, as a result of the Respondent’s actions, Patient B did
not complete her testing, and did not return to the office until her August 1, 2012
appointment. .
31. After writing the letter, Patient B hand-delivered it to Ms.
32. Patient B continued to be seen at the practice until her child was born on
September 9, 2012, but was only seen by Dr. Bo: Ms i. During one of her
August 2012 prenatal visits, Patient B informed Dr. ae: she had consulted an
attorney and was contemplating legal action on account of what she described as the
Respondents actions on June 18, 2012.
33. On August 24, 2012, Dr. {EF wrote a letter to the Respondent, informing the
Respondent that, due to Patient B’s allegations, Dr ould be conducting an
investigation and advised the Respondent that his employment was suspended without
pay, until further notice. Dr. GB tirecte the Respondent that he should not return
to the office or have contact with office employees, with the exception of Ms. >
whom he should contact by email, if necessary, #2

34.  Onor about August 31, 2012, the Respondent resigned from the practice,

35. On October 31, 2012, QO Esquire, sent letters to >: aaa)

Ms. ip and the Respondent, informing them that he was representing Patient B with

ooo

" Prior to writing this letter, Dr, QUIN had engaged attorn GEE 10 2cvise
him on office policies and the development of an office employees’ handbook. In the August 24, 2012 letter, Dr.
vised the Respondent that Mr. would also be conducting an investigation of Patient B’s
allegations, and that the Respondent could also contact Mr@a@or Ms, GEE ernail,
14
respect to her claims regarding her treatment on June 18, 2012. In the letter, Mr.
: [ that Patient B demanded payment of $ 125,000.00 in order to resolve

her claims against the practice.

36, Patient B never filed a lawsuit against Or es: Gago. the

Respondent.

Respondent’s Employment at

37, In September 2012, the Respondent began working (or awe)
| tt provided gynecological Services, including surgical and medical
abortions, in outpatient surgery centers, BB perated offices and surgery centers in
Baltimore, Maryland; Cheverly, Maryland; Frederick, Maryland; Silver, Spring,
Maryland; and Fairfax, Virginia. The Respondent worked in all of @BBy s offices.

38. A surgical abortion conducted early in a pregnancy is generally in the form of
dilatation and curettage (D & C). In aD &C, a speculum is inserted to expand the
patient’s vagina to facilitate the insertion of successively wider dilators to dilate the
patient’s cervix, A tenaculum, or clamp, is used to keep the area open, while a cannula,
attached to a suction machine, is inserted through the cervix to the uterus and rotated
through and around the organ, to collect and expel tissue containing the products of
conception.

39. Following aD & C, the contents collected through the cannula are examined to
ensure that the procedure has been successful and that all remnants of conception have

been removed,’

oe
°° Another term used by witnesses for very early Products of conception, including placental tissue, was “viii.”
15
the ALJ’s finding that the charges in paragraph 29 of the charging document related to Employee
C were unsupported by the evidence.

Dr. Basco filed an exception (“exception 1”) regarding the ALJ’s failure to formally
dismiss the charges related to Employee C. The State responded that the issue was moot. The
Panel concludes that it cannot dismiss the charge of unprofessional conduct because the Panel
finds Dr. Basco acted unprofessionally related to Patient B and Employee A. See Geier v. State
Bd. of Physicians, 223 Md. App. 404, 440 (2015). The Panel does note, however, that its finding
of unprofessional conduct is based solely on Dr. Basco’s conduct related to Employee A and
Patient B.

EXCEPTIONS
IL Prior discipline is admissible for sanctioning purposes - (Respondent Exception 5)

Dr. Basco filed an exception to the admission of State’s Exhibits 2-16 at the hearing,
which consisted of prior disciplinary actions against Dr. Basco. Dr. Basco argued in his
exceptions that these exhibits had no probative value, were highly prejudicial, and were
improperly admitted before a finding of culpability.

The Panel finds that the ALJ correctly admitted this evidence. Dr. Basco claims that the
evidence was improperly admitted before a finding of culpability. The Office of Administrative
Hearings, however, does not conduct bifurcated hearings separating culpability findings and
sanctions. COMAR 28.02.01. To admit this evidence, the State was required to introduce it at
the hearing. Under State Gov’t § 10-213(a)(1), “[e]ach party in a contested case shall offer all of
the evidence that the party wishes to have made part of the record.”

The Panel finds that evidence of Dr. Basco’s prior disciplinary history was probative for

deciding a sanction. The Board’s regulations specifically list prior disciplinary history as an
40. Most surgical abortions include various types of anesthesia to relieve pain and/or
place the patient in a “twilight” state during the procedure. The forms of anesthesia can
include intravenous or topical applications.

41. A medical abortion involves ingestion of a medication to cause the uterus to
contract and expel the products of conception.

Patient A

42. Patient A was thirty-four years old (date of birth: November 23, 1978) at the time
she was a patient at

43. On April 10, 2013, Patient A came toto terminate a 6.2-week pregnancy by
aD &C. On that day, Patient A arrived AQP around 8:30 am., accompanied by her
partner, J

44, Because Patient A wanted to avoid pain during thé procedure, she agreed to the
administration of anesthesia to produce a twilight state in which she would not feel pain
or retain a precise memory of the procedure.

45. Prior to the D & C, Patient A was prepped with a sonogram, urine sample and
blood test, and she filled out paperwork.

46. At approximately 11:00 a.m., Patient A was taken to a treatment room, where
eae a medical assistant, was present, Ms. EER proceeded to assist Patient
A onto a table and place her feet:into stirrups. Ms QggPalso placed a drape over
Patient A, who had undressed herself.

47. At this point, the Respondent entered the room, and, after a brief discussion,
intravenously administered 2mg of Midazolam and 25mg of Ketamine to Patient A.

16
48. Midazolam is a benzodiazepine medication, which reduces anxiety and is used as
@ short-term amnestic agent." Patients who are administered Midazolam generally retain
no memory of a procedure performed under the medication.

49. Ketamine can create a dreamlike State, and cn also cause vivid hallucinations.
Midazolam is frequently used in combination with Ketamine to mitigate some of the
unpleasant effects of Ketamine.

50. Patients administered a combination of Midazolam and Ketamine are not rendered
completely unconscious, and are considered partially awake. The purpose of the
medication is to create a sedated effect, with minimal pain and no memory of the
procedure.

51. After administering Midazolam and Ketamine to Patient A, the Respondent
proceeded to perform the D & C, During the procedure, the Respondent explained his
actions, step-by-step. At several points, Patient A complained of a feeling of “pressure,”
After extracting the material from the suction tube, the Respondent tasked Ms.
with taking the specimen-to 4 room across the hall, called the “scrub room,” to check for
the products of conception.

52. Ms, GRID left the examination room. The Respondent remained in the
examination room, standing by the open door.

53. Upon inspection, which included hydrating the specimen to better discern its
contents, Ms, QBctermined that the specimen did not contain enough tissue to
ensure that all of the products of conceptions had been extracted,

fei
™ Midazolam is also known as “Versed.”
17
54. Because of the insufficiency of the first specimen, the Respondent performed the
- D& Casecond time to extract more material to complete the abortion. During both D &
C procedures, Patient A complained several times of pain and cramping.
55. Following the extraction, Ms, GB ecain left the treatment room to examine
the contents. The Respondent remained in the room with Patient A.
56. Again, although the second sample was greater and contained more blood, Ms.
GED reenterea the room and reported that the contents still contained insufficient
tissue to confirm a complete termination of Patient A’s pregnancy. .
57. As aresult of the questionable termination, the Respondent administered
Methotrexate, a medication to induce a medical termination of the pregnancy, to Patient
A and gave her Misoprostol pills." Because the Respondent was concemed that Patient
A might have an ectopic pregnancy, he also bailed her to follow-up with her primary
Ob/Gyn physician if she experienced pain.
58. After the medical Procedures, at around 11:35 a.m., Patient A was taken to the
recovery room, where her vital signs were taken and recorded by another @iiay staff
member. Following the last taking of her vital signs, at around 11:55 a.m., Patient A was
discharged and left Si
59. Atsome Point shortly after Patient A’s discharge, Ms. GB roticea that Patient
A still owed a $40.00 balance for the services performed, Ms. QB eatica Patient A
and left a message, Because the $B elephones were not working properly, Ms.
ie, used her cell Phone and left a message with her cell phone number for Patient A.
60. Later that day, @iiBretumed too deliver the $40.00 balance. While
speaking to Ms. BB: handed her his cell phone to speak to Patient A. Patient A

———
* Methotrexate, which interferes with placental growth, and Misoprostol, which causes contractions, are given to

induce a medical abortion, which, unlike a D & C, would also terminate an ectopic pregnancy,
18
asked Ms. WB wether it was routine for the doctor to check her rectum during the
procedure. Ms. GRD answered that it sounded odd, but suggested that Patient A speak
to the Respondent or WBeanagement, since she wasn’t certain.

61. Later that evening, Patient A called Ms. a Patient A expressed concern
about her experience and related that the Respondent has placed his finger in her rectum
and asked how it felt and whether she liked it. Ms. GREP 2dvised Patient A to call the

: Rcorporate : number with her complaint, and inform the authorities if she remained

concemed.

62. Later that evening, Patient A called the 1-800" corporate number and
reported her description of the Respondent’s actions.

63. On the next day, June 11, 2013, Patient A contacted the Prince George’s County
Police Department to report the incident, and was directed to the Cheverly Police
Department. Officers from the Cheverly Police Department interviewed Patient A at her
home and obtained a statement from her describing the incident. The Cheverly Police
Department took no further action in the matter.

64, Ms GBD to her ioenager, ST ou: Patient A’s
accusation, but did not immediately discuss it with the Respondent. On several occasions
following the incident, the Respondent stated to Ms, ae... he believed he was
never alone in the room with Patient A and appeared to seek affirmation from Ms,
—. which was not forthcoming. Thereafter, Ms. WD evoide working with the
Respondent at GBinen she could.

65. Onor about May 9, 2013, for matters unrelated to Patient A, Gls Maryland
offices were closed due to the Suspension of its license by the Maryland Office of Health
Care Quality (OHCQ) for violations of Maryland’s surgical abortion facility regulations,

19
MBP’s Investigation

66. On April 23, 2013, the Board received a complaint from Patient A regarding the
Respondent's alleged actions on April 10, 2013,'6

67. OnMay 10, 2013, MBP conducted an unannounced site visit at iD to issue
Subpoenas Duces Tecum and conduct interviews.”

68. On May 14, 2013, MBP wrote to the Respondent we requested an interview.

69. On May 28, 2013, Dana Mullen, MBP Compliance Analyst, interviewed Patient
A. .

70.  OnMay 29, 2013, MBP sent the Respondent a notice for an interview on June 5,
2013. ,

71. On June 13, 2013, MBP sent subpoenas to the Cheverly Police Department for
Patient A’s police report and to Wor Patient A’s medical records. On July 11, 2013,
MBP received Patient A’s medical records and on August 16, 2013, MBP received the
Cheverly Police Department report.

72. — On August 20, 2013, Ms, Mullen interviewed Ms. SD sccompanied by
Andrea Paskin, another MBP Corapliance Analyst,

73. On or about July 23, 2013, the Board received an Adverse Action trom
regarding discipline of the Respondent in another matter. During the course of its
investigation of this action, MBP learned of Patient B’s 2012 complaint to Dr, aa:
74. On October 10, 2013, MBP faxed a subpoena to Dr. GRID s ofhice for Patient
B’s medical records and for Copies of any and all complaints received regarding the

Respondent.

eh!
6 On July 20, 2013, the Board also received information fro: known aaa: regarding
the Respondent. Any allegations received at that time are not e.

”” Although Ms. Mullen’s Teport notes an interview with a record of this interview was
not included in the instant record. .
‘ : 20
75, On or about November 6, 2013, Ms, Mullen obtained Patient B’s August 1, 2012

statement, as well as the letter from Mr. ae, from Dr. GP s office.

76. On December 16, 2013, Ms. Mullen, accompanied by Joshua J. Schafer, another
MBP Compliance Analyst, telephonically interviewed Ms. BP enc, separately, Ms.
GB of Dr. ae: Office staff.

TT On December 20, 2013, Ms: Mullen, accompanied by. Mr. Schafer, telephonically
interviewed Patient B. ,

78. On January 14, 2014, Ms. Mullen, accompanied by Mr. Schafer, telephonically
interviewed Dr. QD

79. On February 27, 2014, MBP sent a letter to the Respondent, scheduling an
interview for March 18, 2014.

80. On March 18, 2014, Ms, Mullen, accompanied by Doreen Noppinger, another
MBP Compliance Analyst, interviewed the Respondent.’* At this time, the Respondent
also submitted a written tesponse to the Board’s allegations.

81. On March 28, 2014, MBP. sent the Respondent a subpoena for a list of names of
individuals identified durtnp his Board interview. .

82. On March 31, 2014, MBP teceived a list of individuals who had tesigned from
Dr. my. office.

83. On April 9, 2014, Ms. Mullen conducted a phone interview ais

a former administrative employee of Dr, P20 worked in the office during the
Respondent’s employment.’?

 

8 The Respondent’s counsel, Mr. Doran, was also present during the interview, ‘
”° Unlike Ms, Mullen’s other interviews, which were taken under oath and transcribed, the telephone interview with

‘as reported in a memorandum submitted by Ms. Mullen.
21
84, On April 23, 2014, Ms. Mullen wrote to Donovan Dietrick, M.D., who had agreed

to conduct an expert review of material regarding the Respondent. Included in the letter

was a Focus of Review, briefly describing MBP’s investigation. The correspondence

also included the following:

Patient A’s Complaint

Response to Patient A’s Complaint

Patient A’s transcribed interview

Cheverly Police Department Report
Respondent’s June 5, 2013 transcribed interview
Ms. $B s transcribed interview

Complaint from (I

Response ABR oniptaint

Patient B’s Complaint

Ms, (MEBs statement

‘Dr. $ transcribed interview

Ms. (BEB transcribed interview

Respondent’s March 18, 2014 transcribed interview
Respondent’ s @jmpOuality Assurance file

Memorandum of Ms, (ey interview

Respondent’s Summary of Care of Patient A

Patient A’s medical record (supplied by the Respondent)
Patient B’s medical record (supplied by Dr. SPs office

22
85. On May 16, 2014, Dr. Dietrick sent Ms. Mullen his review of the Respondent’s
case.

. 86. Following her receipt of Dr. Dietrick’s report, Ms. Mullen issued a Report of
Investigation, describing her analysis of the case and listing the process of her
investigation.

87. On September 29, 2014, MBP issued Charges against the Respondent for
violation of the Act.

espondent’s Li i iscipli
88. On August 15, 2003, the Respondent entered into an Agreed Order with the Texas
State Board of Medical Examiners that constituted a Public Reprimand, based on a
finding that the Respondent violated a provision of the Texas law governing medical
practice by failing to completely disclose information submitted in his hospital privilege
application.
89, On December 14, 2004, the Respondent entered into a Consent Agreement and
Order with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of State before the State
Board of Medicine (Pennsylvania Board), consenting to a Public Reprimand based on the
August 15, 2003 Agreed Order with the Texas State Board of Medical Examiners,
90. On August 26, 2011, the Respondent entered into an Agreed Order with the Texas
Medical Board, and agreed to enroll in and successfully complete at least eight hours of
continuing medical education in an approved course on medical recordkeeping, and to
Pay an administrative penalty in the amount of $3,000.00, The disciplinary action was |
based on a finding that the Respondent did not thoroughly document an alleged
discussion with a patient of the finding in laparoscopic photographs taken and all ,
available treatment options prior to performing a hysterectomy,

23
91. On August 31, 2012, the Pennsylvania Board issued a Final Order Adopting
Hearing Examiner’s Adjudication and Order, ordering a Public Reprimand, based on the
August 26, 2011 Agreed Order with the Texas State Board of Medical Examiners.

92. On November 20, 2012, the Respondent entered into a Consent Order with MBP,
consenting to a Reprimand. The Reprimand was based on the August 31, 2012 Final
Order of the Pennsylvania Board.

93. On May 29, 2013, MBP issued an Order for Summary Suspension of [the
Respondents] License to Practice Medicine. The Order was based on the OHCQ’s
investigation of @iBana findings of multiple violations in the operation omy’:
offices. Following a Post-Deprivation Hearing on June 12, 2013, the Board continued the
Respondent’s suspension.

94. On June 30, 2013, the Medical Board of California (California Board) suspended
the Respondent’s California medical license based on the Respondent’s Maryland
suspension.

95. On July 10, 2013, the Government of the District of Columbia Department of
Health (D.C. Board) issued the Respondent a Notice of Summary Action to Suspend
License, based on the Respondent’s Maryland suspension.

96. On July 24, 2014, the Virginia Medical Board (Virginia Board) —* the
Respondent’s medical license based on the Respondent’s Maryland suspension.

97. On February 27, 2014, the Respondent entered into a Consent Order with MBP,
following charges issued on January 7, 2014. The charges involved a number of the
Respondent’s actions while working at The Consent Order terminated the
Respondent’s May 29, 2013 Summary Suspension and imposed a Suspension for nine

* The Consent Order, signed by the Board on February 28, 2014, referred to the Respondent’s employer as
an entity essentially the same = ;
24

 
months, effective May 29, 2013, and placed the Respondent on Probation for a minimum
period of eighteen months, The Consent Order further provided that the Respondent .
successfully complete an approved course in medical recordkeeping, as well as other
testrictions:on his association with QD The Consent Order additionally dismissed the
charge of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine and permitted the
Respondent to petition the Board at the end of the probationary period to request
termination of probation,

98. On March 5, 2014, MBP issued an Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing
Probation, terminating the Respondent’s May 29, 2013 nine-month suspension and
placing him on probation for eighteen months, with conditions,

99. On April 8, 2014, the California Board issued a Termination of the Respondent’s
Out-of-State Suspension Order,

100. On June 27, 2014, the Texas Medical Board issued an Agreed Order constituting
a Public Reprimand of the Respondent, based on the actions of MBP and the D.C. Board.
101. On August 27, 2014, the California Board issued a Decision and Order (effective
September 26, 2014) imposing a Public Reprimand on the Respondent and ordering that

of the Order, ,

102. On July 2, 2014, the Respondent entered into a Consent Order with the D.C,
Board, in which he agreed to essentially the Same sanctions imposed by MBP, based on
the MBP findings and Orders,

25
aggravating factor that should be considered by a Panel. COMAR 10,32.02.09B(6)(a)
(“Aggravating factors may include[:] . . . [t]he offender has a previous . . . administrative
disciplinary history[.]”). The Panel, therefore, rejects Dr. Basco’s assertion that this evidence
was not probative. Because the evidence of prior discipline was probative, the ALJ appropriately
admitted the evidence, State Gov’t § 10-213(b).

Dr. Basco argues that evidence of his prior disciplinary history was irrelevant to the
charges and placed Dr. Basco in a bad light.' Here, the admission of prior disciplinary history
did not prejudice the ALJ because the prior discipline was only considered for sanctioning
purposes and not to prove the underlying claims. See ALJ’s Proposed Decision at 47-48. The
ALJ’s proposed decision does not discuss, allude to, or consider the prior discipline for any
reason other than determining the appropriate sanction.

Dr. Basco implies that the evidence is prejudicial because the ALJ would not be able to
separate the prejudicial nature of the documents from the proper purpose of considering a
sanction. But, “[i]t is well settled that a legally trained judge, unlike a lay jury, is capable of
compartmentalizing his thinking and of preventing knowledge which might inflame a jury from
influencing his own decisions.” Ehrlich v. State, 42 Md. App. 730, 739-40 (1979) (citing State
v. Hutchinson, 260 Md. 227 (1970)). “[I]t is clear that we have consistently reposed our
confidence in a trial judge’s ability to rule on questions of admissibility of evidence and to then
assume the role of trier of fact without having carried over to his factual deliberations a prejudice

on the matters contained in the evidence which he may have excluded.” Graves v. State, 298 Md.

' Dr. Basco also challenges the ALJ’s proposed decision because the ALJ failed to consider Dr.
Basco’s disciplinary history when evaluating whether he had similar allegations in the past.
Panel A cannot reconcile Dr. Basco’s objection to the Board admitting such information with his
objection to failing to consider such information. The Panel only considered this discipline in
ruling on whether to adopt the ALJ’s proposed sanction.

5
103. On November 14, 2014, the Pennsylvania Board issued a Corrected Final Order
Adopting Hearing Examiner’s Adjudication and Order, issuing a Reprimand and placing
the Respondent on indefinite probation, based on the actions of MBP.2!
104, At the present time, the Respondent holds medical licenses in Maryland and
California. The Respondent’s medical license is suspended in Virginia and inactive in
Pennsylvania. The Respondent has not renewed his medical license in Washington, D.C.
and Texas.
DISCUSSION
Applicable Law/Policies
The Board has charged the Respondent with violating section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Act.
The relevant grounds for reprimand or probation of a licensee, or suspension or revocation of a
license under the Act include the following:

(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle,
a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of
the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee: ‘

(3) Is guilty of:
Gi) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicinef.]
Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (2014).
In addition, the Board charged the Respondent with violating provisions of COMAR
10.32.17, as follows:
-01 Scope.
This chapter prohibits sexual misconduct against patients or key

third parties by individuals licensed or certified under Health Occupations
Article, Titles 14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland.

a “
71 The Pennsylvania Board issued the indefinite probation “until such time as [the Respondent’s] Maryland license
to practice medicine and surgery has been restored to active, unrestricted, nonprobationary status,” (State #16),

26
-02 Definitions.

A.
B,

a this chapter, the following terms have the meanings indicated,

Terms defined.

Q)

2)

Key third party.

(@) = “Key third party” means an individual who
participates in the health and welfare of the patient
concurrent with the physician-patient relationship.

(0) “Key third party” includes, but is not limited to the
following individuals: :

(i) Spouse;

(ii) Partner;

(iii) Parent;

(iv) Guardian;

(v) Surrogate; or

(vi) Proxy designated-by durable power of attorney.
Sexual Impropriety,

(a) “Sexual impropriety” means behavior, gestures, or
expressions that are seductive, sexually suggestive, or
sexually demeaning to a patient or a key third party ;
regardless of whether the sexual impropriety occurs inside
or outside of a professional setting.

(b) “Sexual impropriety” includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Failure to provide privacy for disrobing;

(ii) Performing a pelvic or rectal examination without
the use of gloves;

(ii) Using the health care practitioner-patient

relationship to initiate or solicit a dating, romantic, or .
sexual relationship; and

27
(3)

(iv) Initiation by the health care practitioner of
conversation regarding the health care practitioner’s
sexual problems, sexual likes or dislikes, or fantasies.

“Sexual misconduct” means a health care practitioner’s

behavior toward a patient, former patient, or key third party, which
includes:

(4)

(a) Sexual impropriety;
(b) Sexual violation; or

(c) Engaging in a dating, romantic, or sexual relationship |
which violates the code of ethics of the American Medical
Association, American Osteopathic Association, American
Psychiatric Association, or other standard recognized
professional code of ethics of the health care practitioner’s
discipline or specialty.

Sexual Violation.

(a) “Sexual violation” means health care practitioner-
patient or key third paity sex, whether or not initiated
by the patient or key third party, and engaging in any
conduct with a patient or key third party that is sexual
or may be reasonably interpreted as sexual, regardless
of whether the sexual violation occurs inside or outside
of a professional setting.

(b) “Sexual violation” includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Sexual intercourse, genital to genital coniants
(ii) Oral to: genital contact;
(iii) Oral to anal contact or genital to anal contact;
(iv) Kissing in a romantic or sexual manner;

(v) Touching the patient’s breasts, genitals, or any
sexualized body part;

(vi) Actively causing the patient or key third party
to touch the health care practitioner’s breasts,
genitals, or any sexualized body part;

(vii) Encouraging the patient to masturbate in the
presence of the health care practitioner or
28 ft
masturbation by the health care practitioner while
the patient is present;

(viii) Offering to Provide practice-related
services, such as drugs, in exchange for sexual
favors; and
(ix) Intentionally exposing the health care
practitioner’s breasts, genitals, or any sexualized
body parts.
-03 Sexual Misconduct,
A, Individuals licensed or Certified under Health Occupations Article,
Titles 14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland, may not engage in sexual
misconduct,
B. Health Occupations Article, §§ 14-404(a)(3) and 15-314(3),

Annotated Code of Maryland, includes, but is not limited to, sexual
misconduct.

In its charges, the Board also cited the American Medical Association’s Opinion on
Physicians with Disruptive Behavior, which Provides, in pertinent part:
Opinion 9.045

offered in good faith with the aim of improving patient care should
not be construed as disruptive behavior,

While the Act fails to provide any standard for or definition of the phrase “unprofessional
conduct,” the Maryland Court of Appeals reasonably defined the term to include conduct that
breaches rules or ethical codes of Professional conduct or conduct unbecoming to a member in good
standing in the profession, Finucan yv, Maryland Bd. of, Physicians Quality Assurance, 380 Md.
577, 593, cert. denied, 543 U.S. 862 (2004).

29
Did the Respondent Engage in Unprofessional Conduct in the Practice of Medicine?

Respondent's Employment in Dr. Office *

Dr. ‘lite hired the Respondent with the intent of expanding his Ob/Gyn practice,
particularly in the area of surgical procedures. Asa physician board certified in Ob/Gyn, the
Respondent’s credentials exceeded those of Dr. = Dr. GB e's0 employed a number
of medical assistants and office staff members, some of whom had served with him for many
years, and who possessed deep loyalty to Dr ae A few of Dr. aaa. employees were
raucous and frequently engaged in sexualized humor and provocative behavior, which was
Leuuite tolerated by = In some ways, the Respondent fit into this faction, and did
not limit his exposure to office antics, although the office generally acknowledged his high level
of competency as a physician and his efficient efforts at modemizing and streamlining the
practice,
$ “a ident

The communal break room was the scene of the “ice” incident. In the break room,
employees, including Ms. ie often loosened their inhibitions, telling jokes and acting ina
generally silly manner. Ms, QB was notorious throughout the office for her lewd humor and
dancing, in which she revealed portions of her body. A number of the employees, and even Dr,
(ane, found her amusing, and frequently condoned her clownish behavior. Others found it
disturbing, and tried to distance themselves from ss

The Respondent appeared neutral to Ms. Band her office antics. Although he was .
a more recent member of the team, he frequently joined other office staff in the break room. On

 
the day in question, the Respondent was relaxing in the break room with a cup of ice,
accompanied by employees rT. ce In time, Ms MP joined
the group. While there was little dispute as to whether ice from the Respondent’s cup made
Contact with Ms. (NBMB, the method and nature of the exposure differed,

1 found the testimony of Ms. Band Ms, a... persuasive than that of the
Respondent. Although much was made of Ms QBs propensity for off-color humor and
behavior, her version of events was related in a matter-of-fact manner and was corroborated by
Ms, SP... was unemotional, sincere, and to the point. Both Ms. ew. Ms,

GP vino Were present at the scene, authored contemporaneous and confirming accounts, In
contrast, the Respondent dramatically denied placing the ice down Ms is pants, and
engaged in a somewhat frenetic and distasteful explanation of his actions, — that because
Ms. (EB dcliverately passed noxious gas in his face while placing her food in the refrigerator,
he had no choice but to Spit ice from his mouth and throw it at her to evade the stench. The

Respondent insisted on re-enacting the event, with extended and embellished descriptions of the

purportedly odoriferous offense.

Much of the Respondent’s presentation on this matter emphasized Ms, ae.
behavior, rather than his own. I found descriptions of Ms Gas antics more illustrative of
the tenor of the office, rather than her culpability in the Respondent’s actions. However, any
suggestive or offensive tiowenmnts she may have otherwise made in the Office do not absolve
the Respondent of his Puerile response. It was clear that not all of Dr, az. employees
embraced Ms, ais. humor; some, including BT cscs,
absented themselves from the break room to sidestep the raucous atmosphere, If not always an
active participant, the Respondent surely did not avoid the often bawdy environment, and found
it amusing. Rather than believing that the Respondent engaged in a shocked and disgusted

31
response to Ms. ile I find it more likely than not that when Ms. SBpised her bottom in
proximity to the Respondent as she bent over to place something in the refrigerator, he simply
responded to an irresistible urge to “playfully” lift her waistband and drop a piece of ice > down
her pants. I do not believe that it was a malicious or even lascivious act, but simply an immature
impulse exercised in misplaced frivolity,

However, even if not done in malice, the Respondent’s action reflected poorly on the
medical profession. As a medical professional, the Respondent should have held himself to a /
higher standard of behavior, and refrained from engaging in juvenile humor that had a distinct
possibility of being highly offensive. Dr. Dietrick, the State’s expert, offered that the
Respondent’s conduct “degrades the atmosphere of professionals in the office and also degrades
the safety in a medical environment by...intimidation and lack of respect.” (Tr. P.815)”
Moreover, the Respondent’s testimony, replete with elaborate excuses, convoluted poses and
extensions of blame, further eroded his dignity, and, as will be further noted, he repeated the
behavior throughout the hearing in testimony regarding the other incidents that led to the charges
in this case. For these reasons, I found the Respondent’s rendition of the “ice” incident less
credible than that of other witnesses and Consequently found his actions in the matter to have
constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in violation of section 14-
404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article.

COMAR 10.32.17 prohibits sexual misconduct by a physician with patients or “key third
parties.” In this matter, Ms. (Rem as an assistant in Dr. ae practice and a co-worker
of the Respondent’s, could qualify as a key third party who participates in the health and welfare
of the patient concurrent with the physician-patieat relationship. The definitions of sexual

misconduct in the regulation are fairly broad, ranging from sexual activities involving identified

 

3 Dr. A the Respondent's expert, did not offer an opinion as to the Respondent’s conduct while employed by
Dr.
‘ 32
body parts to gestures encompassing a sexual connotation. However, while the Respondent
came in proximity to Ms, a: body when he stretched her waistband and dribbled the ice
down her pants, the act was only marginally sexual, if at all. The regulation defines a ioeician
violation” as engaging in any conduct that is sexual or may be interpreted as sexual, Although
the action may have shocked Ms GB nd made her feel extremely uncomfortable, she did
not appear to interpret it as an Overtly sexual act, but merely as an action that made her fee]
“awkward.” (Tr. p.25) In itself, the act was more sophomoric than salacious. Since, in effect, it
skirted the edge of a sexual nature, and was simply inane, I cannot identify it as sexual
misconduct, impropriety, or violation, per COMAR 10.32.17,02.

“Desk” Incident

Had the “desk” incident Occurred in isolation, it may never have raised the attention of
the Board. For some reason, viewed differently by the participants, the Respondent became
upset in the office, and, acting in frustration, but without restraint, shook Ms. a: desk and
kicked a wall. Contrary to the Board’s assertion that Ms Bas frightened or intimidated
by the Respondent’s actions, Ms, QP pp cars to have left the office primarily due to her
interest in Separating herself from the Situation, and not out of fear,

More concerning than the Respondent’s behavior in Ms > s office was the
discrepancy between the testimony of the Respondent, Ms ae and Ms, GBPReearding the '
reason forthe Respondent’s outburst. Neither Ms. Gro. Ms. Bou specifically
remember the event or Situation that Precipitated the Respondent’s anger.* The Respondent,
however, again’ engaged ina highly agitated narrative of the alleged catastrophic loss of crucial
office and patient data, to justify his physical response, Surely, had the office experienced such a
calamitous event, Ms, AB, the veteran office manager, would have remembered, Even Ms,

a Ms I ccutzsca that the cause may have been a remark she made that the Respondent considered “stupid,

(Tr, p.620)
33
—_ who appeared to have been an ally of the Respondent, had no recollection of an event that
the Respondent feverishly described as a disaster. As in the “ice” incident, the Respondent over-
embellished his testimony, rendering it less credible.

However, as to the primary issue of whether the Respondents actions in Ms. ay:
office constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, the answer is less clear,
The Respondent lost his temper, albeit in an excited and potentially destructive manner,
Obviously, something in the notoriously dysfunctional office aroused his ire, and he momentarily
lost control. His actions, however, were not deliberately directed to any individual, nor did they
cause physical comiage. Although Dr. Dietrick characterized the Respondent’s outburst as
intimidating, the edie Suggests that the witnesses present were exasperated, at best, rather
than frightened. Ms. GP simply wanted to exit the scene, not flee, While the Respondent’s
anger may have reflected a less than admirable human response to frustration, it alone does not
rise to behavior that would negatively affect the practice of medicine, For that reason, I do not
find that the “desk” incident constituted unprofessional conduct in n the practice of medicine,
Patient B

The parties offered starkly divergent testimony regarding the Respondent’s treatment of
Patient B. Patient B was resolute in her description of events, detailed and precise. Patient B
described the progression of her difficult pregnancy, albeit in dramatic terms, including her
hospital stay in which she required intravenous medication and, eventually, a PICC line at home.
Additionally, Patient B freely admitted her marijuana use during Pregnancy, couching it in terms
of protecting her unborn child with hutrition, to mitigate her general inability to retain food due
to unremitting nausea. This justification, while a bit strident, was sincere. Whether or not
Patient B also used marijuana for other reasons, ni clearly had an interest in maintaining some
nutrition during the most arduous part of her pregnancy,

34
June 18, 2012 examination was Teasonable, given her accusation. Her testimony in the hearing
was straightforward and steady.25

On the other hand, aspects of the Respondent’s denial of Patient B’s Version of events,
and particularly the testimony of his Supporting witnesses, were in direct contravention of Patient
B’s claims, and in part, unconvincing, The.question as to whether there was a chaperone during
the examination, and, if 50, which office member acted in that role, wes crucial, and also led to
the diminished credibility of the witnesses, The Respondent asserted that during the entire visit,
he was accompanied by a chaperone; however, he could not recall the identity of the Staff
member acting in that capacity.” Ms, QD s:12 that she only knew of two occasions when
the Respondent examined a patient without a chaperone, and Patient B’s June 18, 2012 visit was
noone of those occasions. Ms QIMMBestified under oath that she was the Respondent's
chaperone on June 18, 2012, and was present during the entirety of Patient B’s examination and
departure from the Office. All of these assertions were questionable, if not overtly false.

The Respondent thoroughly discounted Patient B’s accusation, and completely denied her
claims. Although he could not identify which staff member assisted him that day, he asserted
that he “never” saw a patient without a chaperone, The Respondent Speculated that Patient B
based her untrue allegations on her anger at the Respondent for chastising her for her drug use

of her treatment
*6 The record indicates that Ms. Om... Patient B’s vital Signs prior to the June 18, 2012 examination;
however, there was no claim that she was the chaperone, :

35
542, 547 (1984) (quoting State v. Hutchinson, 260 Md. 227, 236 (1970)). Compartmentalization,
that is, “I may know something for certain purposes, but I don't know it for other purposes,” is
considered “[m]other’s milk” for judges, and “[w]e trust the judge to compartmentalize.” Polk v.
State, 183 Md. App. 299, 306-07 (2008). Both the ALJ and the Panel have the expertise to
compartmentalize the determinations of underlying culpability and the sanction.

Dr. Basco also objected to the admission of the evidence of prior discipline because he
claims it was repetitious. In other words, there were three underlying original cases that resulted
in multiple reciprocal actions by other jurisdictions. The ALJ acknowledged the repetition,
noting in her proposed decision that “[t]he majority of sanctions imposed upon the Respondent
by various jurisdictions were due to reciprocity between jurisdictions, rather than a multiplicity
of violations.” ALJ Proposed Decision at 47, The Panel thus considers Dr. Basco’s prior
discipline with full awareness that exhibits 2-16 reflect three prior incidents that resulted in two
disciplinary actions by the Board.

Dr. Basco also argues that the Panel should not consider prior consent orders because the
orders “were settlement agreements and no party should be able to use settlements to prove
liability for, or validity of, a charges in those actions.” The Board’s regulations do not limit
consideration of prior discipline to non-consent orders, but instead includes all disciplinary
actions. COMAR 10.32.02.09B(6)(a) (“Aggravating factors may include .. . [t]he offender has a
previous criminal or administrative disciplinary history[.]”). Maryland courts have approved a
health occupations board’s consideration of prior consent orders as evidence of prior discipline
in consideration of imposing incremental discipline when determining sanctions. See Rosov vy.
Maryland State Bd. of Dental Examiners, 163, Md. App. 98, 121 (2005). Dr. Basco’s exception

is denied.
during pregnancy and his threat to expel her from the practice should she continue. However,
Patient B’s last blood test that tevealed marijuana use was taken on May 9, 2012, with the results
available and sent to the office on or about May 14, 2012. Patient B was seen by Dr. ame:
on May 18, 2012 and Ms. Gn May 30, 2012, and each was aware of her most recent
positive test for marijuana’ The Respondent, whose medical knowledge was essentially
unquestioned, testified that traces of marijuana may remain in one’s system for 30 days
following the last use, so it was not clear that Patient B had continued to use marijuana following
her hospitalization. The Respondent’s recitation of events implied that his strong admonition
and threat was the office’s first awareness and alarm over the Respondent’s alleged continued
drug use. The time scenario raises doubt e to the Respondent's interpretation of events. While
it may be that during the examination, he noted the nearly six-week old blood test and even
groKgty cautioned Patient B, his characterization of her reaction | self-serving and a
smoke screen for his denial of her claim.

Ms. QP s testimony Similarly raised questions. Ms, (als appeared to have a
preternaturally detailed recollection of Patient B’s rushed and angry departure from the office on
June 18, 2012. Ms, Ged that nearly three years after the fact, as a mere bystander,
whose desk was “around the comer” from the examination Toom, she specifically recalled the
harsh words spoken by Patient B, as well as her actions, as she left. I found her absolute recall
unlikely. According to Ms. ap her clear recollection was based on her duty of making sure
pregnant patients with drug issues attended scheduled appointments, Ms. (eae offered that
when the office received a patient’s lab results indicating a positive drug test, she would send a
letter to the patient and have the physician counsel them during their next appointment.

However, there is no evidence that such a letter was ever sent to Patient B.

_—_——

”” Upon réceiving Patient B’s May 9, 2012 lab results, Dr SB... MBB 021 Potient B and warn her
regarding her marijuana use,
36 ‘
Ms. =: testimony was completely undercut by the revelation that, contrary to her
assertion, she was not even in the office on June 18, 2012.78 In her testimony, Ms ay
without reservation, attested to her presence during the Patient B’s June 18, 2012 examination by
the Respondent, She Stated, in great detail, a description of the examination, disavowing Patient
B’s narrative, but offered a gentler version of the Respondent’s message to Patient B regarding
drug use, Ms. ipso claimed that she was utterly unaware of Patient B’s claim, although
she was ultimately served with notice of Patient B’s intent to seek legal action against the
practice. It is hard to fathom why Ms who otherwise appeared to be knowledgeable and
professional, would fabricate a story that was so eminently untrue. Admittedly a personal friend
of the Respondent, unfortunately, Ms. =. false testimony hurt more than helped her former
colleague, ,

Dr. Dietrick, the Board’s expert, offered that Patient B’s version of events contained
numerous inappropriate actions undertaken by the Respondent, Although he noted that there is

ho strict legal requirement for a chaperone, Dr, Dietrick submitted that it is most inadvisable to
examine a patient unaccompanied, and markedly unprofessional to be present when a patient
disrobes. Dr. Dietrick also questioned the necessity for conducting a breast exam on a patient
who is twenty-nine weeks into 4 pregnancy and indicated that manipulating her breast in the
manner described would not have be customary in a cardiac exam,

Patient B’s alleged motives are not pristine. It is true that she used marijuana while
pregnant, a practice that was strongly discouraged by her physicians, She did not reveal her

reasons for missing a number of appointments and complaining about the Respondent’s actions

ee

In rebuttal, the State presented evidence oS: RD :. bitler in Dr, AF.

office, of Ms. 's scheduled absence from the office on June 18, 2012 and a in her offi i

en ee cena > Sap in her office production on that
37
for over a month and a half. Patient B consulted with an attorney, who ultimately threatened a
claim against the practice. However, when stacked against the flimsy and rebutted testimony on
behalf of the Respondent, I find if more likely than not that Patient B’s claims were true. That
she would have hurriedly left the office without making another appointment after such
gratuitous touching by the Respondent is believable, and her subsequent absence from the office
is consistent with having a bad experience and delaying return. Her description of the
Respondent’s June 18, 2012 en was clear and fot overly inflated or salacious, It is
entirely plausible that during this visit, Patient B’s first office examination by the Respondent,
that, unsupervised, he touched her =" as described, in a manner unexpected by Patient B, and
not in conformance with a standard, routine mid-pregnancy exam. As such, I find that the
Respondent’s June 18, 2012 examination of Patient B constituted unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine in violation of'section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article,
Since I found Patient B’s version of events more credible than that of the Respondent, I
must consider whether his actions constituted impermissible sexual impropriety, misconduct, or
violation under COMAR 10.32.17.02. By failing to provide Patient B privacy for disrobing, the
Respondent engaged in sexual impropriety under COMAR. 10.32.17,02B(2)(b)(ji). Patient B’s
perception of the Respondent’s actions as sexually suggestive or demeaning also encompass
sexual impropriety under COMAR 10.32.17.02B(2)(a). Under COMAR 10.32, 17.02B(4)(a), a
sexual violation can encompass engaging in any conduct with a patient that may be reasonably
interpreted as sexual, and, under COMAR 10,32,17 02B(4)(b)(v), includes touching a patient’s
breasts, genitals, or any other sexualized body part. By gratuitously handling Patient B’s breasts °
and exposing her buttocks, the Respondent's actions met the definition of a sexual violation,
Additionally, under COMAR 10.32, 17.02B(3)(a) and (b), behavior that includes sexual
impropriety and sexual violation constitutes sexual misconduét. Accordingly, I find that the

38
Respondent engaged in sexual misconduct under COMAR 10.32.17 in his examination of Patient
B on June 18, 2012,
Respondent's Employment with (ummm
Following his resignation from Dr, a. practice, the Respondent began working
for (Pin September 2012, until his Summary suspension on May 29, 2013.2” While other
disciplinary matters may have arisen from the practice of medicine at = this case is focused
on the treatment of Patient A.
Patient A
Conflicting testimony surrounded the allegations of Patient A. Both Patient A and Ms,
GBB escrives, i in detail, a process that included ‘two attempts at suctioning and an occasion in
which the Respondent remained alone j in the room with Patient A. The Respondent’s version of
events starkly contradicted that Scenario, citing only one procedure and asserting that he was
accompanied by Ms throughout the procedure?

‘It is difficult to reconcile the narratives; the record notes only one procedure, yet it is of
questionable veracity. Moreover, the primary accusation by Patient A, that the unchaperoned
Respondent placed his finger in her rectum and made a rude remark,?! js clouded by the
administration of Midazolam and Ketamine, which both experts agreed could produce a skewed
and dreamlike experience.

When asked about the possible hallucinogenic effects of the Midazolam/Ketamine
combination on Patient A’s perception of the procedure, each expert conceded that the

  
 
   

i say thaceitior, cues aout Shortly thereafter, on or abo tg 2013, the rede filed a Notice of Intent to Revoke Surgical Abortion
Facility Licenses against all of Maryland clini clini

3 The ponies offered testim ion a formerly of GMM} stating that he had been told by Dr.
physician, now deceased, ting of events to her, that indicated that

 
 

     
 

i Respondent crmmieens Paice A’s procedure. I found Dr. SR... testimony in this regard
uated as ts render it unpersuasive, and gave more to the essentially consistent t testimony of Ms.
mz categorically denied she had ever related to Dr. ‘at she had not left the Respondent alone in

the room with Patient A.
*) Patient A claimed that as the Respondent inserted his 7 in her rectum he asked “Baby, do it feel good?”
medication mixture may well have caused Patient A to have an inaccurate, or even farfetched
recollection of events. Dr. Adashek, the Respondent’s expert, explained that Midazolam, a
benzodiazepine, is a long-acting amnestic, anti-anxiety relaxant medication that “sort of numbs
the mind, makes you fairly forgetful.” (Tr. P.739) Dr. Adashek termed Ketamine as a general
anesthetic that does not change a patient’s ability to breathe or heart rate, but noted that
Ketamine can have some “annoying side effects.” (Tr. P.739) He described the side effects as
the potential for “vivid dream-like states and nightmares” and noted that the federal Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) has warned on the Ketamine package insert that this emergent
reaction” occurs in approximately twelve percent of patients. (Tr. P.744-45) Dr. Adashek
further elaborated in his description of Ketamine reactions contained in the medication’s FDA
special note, which warns that “psychological manifestations vary in severity between pleasant
dream-like states, vivid imagery, hallucinations, and emergence delirium. In some cases these
States have been accompanied by confusion, excitement and irrational behavior which a few
patients recall as an unpleasant experience,” (Tr. p.746) Dr. Adashek, however, also noted that
the administration of Midazolam can mitigate some of Ketamine’s more severe side effects.

In his testimony, Dr. Dietrick endorsed the opinion he rendered in his written report, as

follows:

During the course of a dilatation and curettage for pregnancy
termination, there is no indication to perform a rectal examination
except occasionally prior to the start of the procedure if there is
doubt to the position of the uterus or severe retro flexion of the
uterus. If true, a gratuitous rectal penetration and comments such
as stated are indeed unprofessional conduct and sexual
impropriety. However, Midazolam is an amnesic*? agent and
Ketamine has hallucinogenic properties. Despite [Patient A’s]
vivid remembrance of Portions of the procedure and her nurse’s
feeling that [the Respondent] tried to get her to lie for him after the
charges were lodged, it is not possible for me to determine the

es

» An “emergent reaction” is one experienced while coming out of anesthesia,

a During the hearing, the words “amnesic” and “amnestic” were used interchangeably,
40
veracity of the complaint lodged by [Patient A] due to the mental
state potentially induced by these anesthetic agents. (State # 34)

The doubt sewn by each expert’s concerns about the reliability of recollections derived
under the influence of the combination of Midazolam and Ketamine during Patient A’sD &C
render her recitation of the alleged improper touching highly questionable. Even if only twelve
percent of Ketamine users have been documented to encounter the most severe side effects of the
medication, the suggestion, recognized by both experts, that Patient A’s description could be
compromised by delusion, precipitates my reluctance to find that the improper action actually
occurred.

Of fhe three participants in the procedure, I found Ms. QP he most credible, Her
testimony was calm and consistent. She methodically telated the series of events in which, even
after two attempts, the Respondent was unable to Suction enough tissue to confirm the
termination of Patient A’s pregnancy, Ms, xplained how she examined the contents
extracted from Patient A at each attempt, and even drew a diagram of the room to explain where
all the participants were located, (Resp. #20)" Given the timeline, I found her description
plausible, and believed her account that she briefly left the room to examine the second sample,
with Patient A and the Respondent remaining in the examination Toom unaccompanied,

Talso found Ms aay description of the Respondents repeated attempts to conform
her description of the procedure to his own persuasive and disturbing. Clearly, the Respondent |
had an interest in securing Ms aay agreement as to the timeline of events and Patient A’s
reaction. His vents at BB towed his unpleasant experience with Dr. QB nd Patient

B’s complaint of inappropriate touching. However, even if the Respondent’s motivation was to

 
   
 
  

a Although, on rebuttal, Ms MD state that although she originally testified that when she Tretumed to the

the Respondent was standing by a i tmbered that he remained seated on the stool at the base of

the table, I found this change Ml st ce there was little distance between the stool and the cabinet.
le credibili

 

This difference did not erod:
simply avoid another investigation into what he considered a false accusation, the pressure he
exerted on Ms. ae... misplaced and unseemly,
Additionally, I found the Respondent’s explanation of the discrepancy between his and
Ms. EER collection of events puzzling. Although the Respondent stated more than once in
his testimony that during what he described as a single procedure, Patient A repeatedly
‘complained of pressure in her rectum, and wrote a second note, at 12:00 p.m., after the initial
11:35 a.m. note at the completion of the procedure, emphasizing that Statement, neither Patient A.
nor Ms, QB eationed this alleged recurrent complaint. Moreover, when asked how Ms.
ee) account could be so different from his, the Respondent accused Ms. QB of having
. been bribed by Patient A, without any evidence whatsoever to substantiate his claim. I —
this accusation, emphatically presented by the Respondent, bizarre at best.

However, based on both Dr. Adashek’s and Dr. Dietrick’s expert testimony regarding the
potentially mind-altering effects of the combination of Midazolam and Ketamine administered to
Patient A, I cannot find, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Respondent placed his
finger in her rectum, as she described, While I am certain that Patient A fully believed the
improper touching ensued, and was not deliberately fabricating her scoount, if even the State’s
expert questioned her reliable description of events, I cannot find it more likely that not that it
occurred,

Although the State did not meet its burden to prove the allegations claimed by Patient A,
the Respondent’s defense of these allegations fit a pattern that he displayed throughout the
hearing. At each turn, his responses were so embellished, exaggerated, and dramatized as to

‘ diminish his credibility. It was unclear whether the Respondent was simply nervous, or whether
he calculated that his more outlandish and quasi-detailed descriptions would render his testimony
more believable. Independent of his motives, whether the Respondent was reeling from Ms.

42
Ta bodily emissions, railing against Patient B’s drug use, or accusing Ms, aie
Corrupt motives, his attempts at deflection were unpersuasive,
MBP’s Investigation

At several points during the hearing, the Respondent suggested that the Board’s
investigation was somehow improper or insufficient, In the course of her investigation, Ms,
Mullen conducted interviews, under oath, with Patient A, Ms. Gage Ms. Ms. <>
Patient B, Dr. Ge. the Respondent, Ms, Mullen also spoke with Ms, MRD over the

‘phone and produced extensive notes of their conversation. The Board obtained Patient A’s and
Patient B’s medical records, as well as other documents pertinent to the allegations regarding the
Respondent.

The Respondent argued that the Board’s failure to interview Ms @rendered its:
investigation inadequate. I disagree; while her input, particularly ag expressed in the hearing,
may have added somewhat to the Board’s investigation, it certainly would not have proven.
exculpatory to the Respondent. The other witnesses the Respondent produced, who were not
included in the Board’s investigation, were complimentary of the Respondent’s skills asa
physician, but were unable to shed any significant light on the Board’s specific allegations,*5
The general consensus of these witnesses was that the Respondent was a highly competent
Ob/Gyn, with a direct and forthright ities, who placed great effort and emphasis in attending
to patients’ needs and Promoting office efficiency. While the testimony offered by these
witnesses added to my understanding of the Respondent?s practice and character, their input
would not likely have Proven particularly relevant to the Board’s case, nor would it have likely
prevented or influenced the Board’s ultimate action, Consequently, I cannot find that the
Board’s investigation of the Respondent was inadequate or improper,

* These witnesses inc!
era

43
Sanctions
In this case, the State is seeking to impose, at a minimum, a one-year suspension of the
Respondent’s medical license, and a requirement that he be referred by MBP or Med Chi to the
Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program for evaluation of behavioral issues, and that the
Respondent be mandated to attend and abide by all of the measures recommended, including
therapy. The State additionally requested that I recommend that after the Respondent’s
suspension, he remain on probation for five years, be supervised in order to determine whether
his professional behavior meets the standards of the profession, and be required to complete
appropriate coursework in the area of medical ethics. COMAR 10,32.02.09 sets forth the general
sanctioning guidelines for physicians, providing in pertinent part as follows:
09 Sanctioning and Imposition of Fines.
A. General Application of Sanctioning Guidelines,

(1) Sections A and B of this regulation and Regulation

-10 of this chapter do not apply to offenses for which a

mandatory sanction is set by statute or regulation.

(2) Except as provided in §B of this regulation, for

violations of Health Article §§14-404(a) ... Annotated

Code of Maryland, the [Board’s] disciplinary panel shall

impose a sanction not less severe than the minimum listed

in the sanctioning guidelines nor more severe than the

maximum listed in the sanctioning guidelines for each

offense.

(3) Ranking of Sanctions,

(a) —‘ Forthe purposes of this regulation, the
severity of sanctions is ranked as follows, from the

least severe to the most severe;
(i) Reprimand;
Gi) Probation;

ae ea
*6 COMAR 10.32.02.10 Provides a matrix for sanctions for various violations of the Act,
44
Gil) Suspension; and

(iv) Revocation.
(bo) Astayed Suspension in which the stay is
conditioned on the completion of certain
requirements is ranked ag probation.

(C) Astayed Suspension not meeting the criteria
for §A(3)(b) of this tegulation is ranked as a
reprimand,

(@) A fine listed in the sanctioning guidelines
may be imposed in addition to but not as a
substitute for a sanction,

(©) The addition ofa fine does not change the
ranking of the severity of the sanction,

(4) The disciplinary panel may impose more than one

(8) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each
case, and to the extent that the facts and circumstances
apply, the disciplinary panel may consider the aggravating
and mitigating factors set out in §B(5) and (6) of this
regulation and may in its discretion determine, based on
those factors, that an exception should be made and that the
Sanction in a particular case should fall outside the range of
Sanctions listed in the Sanctioning guidelines,

(9) ‘If the disciplinary panel imposes a sanction that
departs from the sanctioning guidelines set forth in
Regulation .10 of this chapter, the disciplinary panel shall
State its reasons for doing so in its final decision and order

Aggravating and Mitigating Factors,

(1) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each
case, and to the extent that the facts and circumstances

45
Il. Testimony Regarding the Use of a Chaperone - (Respondent Exception 2)

Dr. Basco claims that the ALJ ignored evidence that Dr. Basco consistently had a
chaperone with him when examining patients. He cites seven witness statements to demonstrate
that he consistently used a chaperone. Dr. Basco claims that the Panel should find that he used a
chaperone and, therefore, was not alone in the room with Patient B, as she alleged.

Of Dr. Basco’s seven witness statements, the majority do not support his claim that he
used a chaperone. Two witness statements do not concern his use of a chaperone at all.
Specifically, a former patient of Dr. Basco did not testify about Dr. Basco’s use of a chaperone
and the Acting Human Resources Director at his second employer, did not testify about Dr.
Basco’s use of a chaperone.

Physician A, Dr, Basco’s former employer, discussed chaperones in his testimony, but
did not verify that Dr. Basco used a chaperone. Rather, he testified that a team of people were
available to Dr. Basco to serve as a chaperone.

Dr. Basco presented written statements from a medical assistant who worked with Dr.
Basco at Physician A’s office and a nurse co-worker at his second employer. The medical
assistant stated that she never saw Dr. Basco enter a patient room without a chaperone. The
nurse stated that she did not see Dr. Basco alone with a patient.

Two other witnesses who describe Dr. Basco’s use of a chaperone were Employee C, a
receptionist/assistant at the Physician A’s office, and Employee D, a nurse midwife at Physician
A’s office. These witnesses also testified about the specific day at issue regarding Patient B.
The ALJ deemed these witnesses’ statements to be “questionable, if not overtly false.”
Employee D testified that she herself was the chaperone for Dr. Basco and Patient B on June 18,

2012. This testimony was untrue. Employee D’s testimony was contradicted by rebuttal
apply, the disciplinary panel may consider the aggravating
and mitigating factors set out in §B(5) and (6) of this

regulation and may in its discretion determine, based on
those factors, that an exception should be made and that the
sanction in a particular case should fall outside the range of
sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

(2) Nothing in this regulation requires the disciplinary
panel or an administrative law judge to make findings of
fact with respect to any of these factors,

(3) A departure from the sanctioning guidelines set
forth in Regulation .10 of this chapter is not a ground for
any hearing or appeal of a disciplinary panel action.

(4) The existence of one or more of these factors does
not impose on the disciplinary panel or an administrative
law judge any requirement to articulate its ing for not
exercising its discretion to impose a sanction outside of the
range of sanctions set out in the sanctioning guidelines,

(5) Mitigating factors may include, but are not limited
to, the following:

(a) The absence of a prior disciplinary record;
(0) The offender self-reported the incident;

(c) The offender voluntarily admitted the
misconduct, made full disclosure to the disciplinary
panel and was Cooperative during the disciplinary
panel proceedings;

(d) ‘The offender implemented remedial
measures to correct or mitigate the harm arising
from the misconduct:

(©) The offender made good faith efforts to
make restitution or to rectify the consequences of
the misconduct;

@® The offender has been rehabilitated or:
exhibits rehabilitative potential;

(g) The misconduct was not premeditated;

(h) ‘There was no potential harm to patients or

the public or other adverse impact; or
46
(i) The incident was isolated and is not likely to
recur.

(6) Aggravating factors may include, but are not limited
to, the following:

(a) The offender has a previous criminal or
administrative disciplinary history; |.

(b) The offense was committed deliberately or
with gross negligence or recklessness;

(c) The offense had the potential for or actually
did cause patient harm;

(4) The offense was part of a pattern of
detrimental conduct;

©) — The offender committed a combination of
factually discrete offenses adjudicated in a single
action;

(f) ‘The offender pursued his or her financial
gain over the patient’s welfare;

(g) The Patient was especially vulnerable;

(h) The offender attempted to hide the error or
misconduct from patients or others; ‘

(i) The offender Concealed, falsified or
destroyed evidence, or presented false testimony or
evidence; :

@) . The offender did not cooperate with the
investigation; or

(k) Previous attempts to rehabilitate the offender were
unsuccessful.

The Respondent has a fairly extensive disciplinary history. The majority of sanctions
imposed upon the Respondent by various jurisdictions were due to reciprocity between
jurisdictions, rather than a multiplicity of violations, Nonetheless, I am compelled to take the

Respondent’s disciplinary history into consideration in recommending a sanction in this case.
. 47
In 2003, the Respondent was issued a reprimand by the Texas State Board of Medical
Examiners for failing to disclose information in his hospital Privilege application. As a result of
the action in Texas, the Pennsylvania Board reciprocally issued its own reprimand of the
Respondent. In 2011, the Respondent entered into an Agreed Order with the Texas Medical
Board to complete an approved course in medical recordkeeping and pay an administrative
. penalty, based on a finding that the did not thoroughly document discussing medical findings and
options with a patient prior to a hysterectomy. Asa result of the 2011 Texas Agreed Order, the
Respondent received reciprocal reprimands from the Pennsylvania Board and the MBP (based on
the action of the Pennsylvania Board). In 2013, MBP summarily suspended the Respondent’s
license based on an investigation that revealed multiple violations at, and continued the
suspension subsequent to a post-deprivation hearing. As a result of MBP’s summary Suspension,
the Respondent’s license was also reciprocally suspended by the California Board, the D.C.
Board, and the Virginia-Board. In 2014, MBP terminated the Respondent’s summary suspension
and imposed a nine-month suspension, effective May 29, 2013, and a period of probation for a
minimum of eighteen months, The Respondent’s suspension terminated on March 5, 2013, at
which time his probation, with conditions, commenced, In 2014, the Texas Medical Board, the
Califomia Board, the D.C. Board and the Pennsylvania Board imposed reciprocal discipline on
the Respondent based on the actions of MBP. At the current time, the Respondent holds active
medical licenses in Maryland and California, His medical license in Virginia remains
Suspended, is inactive in Pennsylvania, and was not renewed in Washington, D.C., and Texas.

The Respondent is not currently engaged in the clinical practice of medicine, although his
present position in the field of Medical Informatics requires an active medical license for board
certification. He has transitioned to an area of administrative medicine, drawing on his

48
considerable technological skills. The Respondent’s current Concern is in the area of Electronic
Medical Records (EMR), and operating a medical/computer software service,

The Regulations require me to consider all of this disparate information, including the
facts of this case and all mitigating and aggravating factors, in order to recommend a fair and
effective sanction. In this Recommended Decision, I have essentially come to a split conclusion:
that the State has proven by a preponderance of the evidence two actions by the Respondent that
constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of the Act, and that
the State failed to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that two other incidents alleged by
the Board rose to such a violation,

The Respondent’s behavior in the “ice” incident and his treatment of Patient B exhibited
unprofessional conduct, The “ice” incident, while seemingly adolescent and trivial, reduced the
Respondent to a level unbecoming a member of the medical profession. In spite of the low
humor that infected Dr. QD; office staff, and particularly that of Ms, SD the
Respondent plainly should have had the sense to separate himself from such immature behavior
and maintain a dignified demeanor. This is not to say that the Respondent ought not to have
associated with office staff; to the contrary, it was in his, and the office’s interest, to forge cordial
working relationships with his co-workers. However, when it descended into childish and lewd
reciprocity, the Respondent crossed the line. Asa professional, the Respondent had an
obligation to engage in model behavior and appropriate decorum in the office setting. In this
vein, he clearly failed, :

The Respondent’s treatment of Patient B displayed a failure to conduct an appropriate
examination. The Respondent sloppily left himself vulnerable by not having an accompanying
chaperone. His examination of Patient B included aspects not customary in a routine mid-
pregnancy appointment, and appeared gratuitous and opportunistic, Clearly, Patient B felt

49
deeply uncomfortable and, ultimately, violated, [ cannot fathom the Respondent’s reason for
touching Patient B’s breasts, pulling down her pants and manipulating her lower back. |
acknowledge that the Respondent continues to deny that these actions occurred; however, even
had he offered that they had been Proper components of an examination, I would have found his
assertion specious, at best.

Adding an additional layer to my analysis was the Respondent's histrionic demeanor in
the hearing. While the Respondent remained calm and passive throughout the testimony of other
witnesses, when it came his turn to testify, he became overexcited and accusatory, blaming
everyone but himself for all the trouble into which he had fallen. The Respondent’s excuses
were farcical, and might have even been amusing, had the underlying subject not been so serious.

The Respondent has already been subject to a Suspension and a lengthy probationary
period in another matter before the Board. While the instant charges temporally overlap sonie of
the charges that led to his previous discipline, they are not insignificant, and cannot be ignored.
Accordingly, and taking into consideration the factors contained in COMAR 10.32.02.09 and my

‘proposed dismissal of two of the Board’s charges, J tecommend that the Respondent be
suspended from the practice of medicine for six months, followed by a year of probation, with a
referral to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program for a behavioral evaluation, with
any attendant recommendations, and a requirement to attend any applicable course in medical
ethics the Board may impose, :

ROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Proposed Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter
of law that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of the Medical Practice Act. Md. Code Ann., Health Oce, § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (2014);
Finucan v, Maryland Bd of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577, cert denied 543 U.S. 862

50
(2004). I further find that the Respondent engaged in sexual misconduct. COMAR 10.32.17.03.
As a result, I conclude that the Board may discipline the Respondent for the cited violations.
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a); COMAR 10.32.02.09A and B.
PROPOSED DISPOSI TION

I PROPOSE that charges filed by the Board against the Respondent on September 29,
2014, be UPHELD in part and DISMISSED in part, and

I PROPOSE that the Respondent be suspended for a period of six months, followed by a
one-year period of probation,

I further PROPOSE that the Respondent be referred to the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program for a behavioral evaluation, and be required to attend any applicable

course in medical ethics the Board may impose.

Jul
Date Decision Issued

 

HCH/kke
# 156608"

panel of the Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, MD, 21215-2299, At:
Geneva Goode, Administrative Aide to Supervisor, Compliance Administration, .

51
Copies mailed to:

Christine Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

Metro Executive Plaza

4201 Patterson Avenue, Third floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

Robert J. Gilbert, AAG

Administrative Prosecutor

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Rosalind Spellman, Administrative Officer

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attomey General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

Thomas L. Doran, Esquire

Law Office

17251 Melford Boulevard, Suite 200
Bowie, MD 20715

Michael Basco, MD
1115 4™ Street, SE
Washington, DC 20003

Devinder Singh, M.D.; Chair

’ Maryland Board of Physicians
Metro Executive Plaza

4201 Patterson Avenue, Third floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

John Nugent, Principal Counsel

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division
Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Room 201

Baltimore, MD 21201

52
witnesses, who presented convincing evidence that Employee D was out of the office on June 18,
2012. Accordingly, the Panel does not find Employee D’s testimony regarding Dr. Basco’s use
of a chaperone credible. Employee C testified that Patient B was rushed and angry when she
departed from the office. The ALJ deemed this to be unlikely and thus, the ALJ did not find her
testimony credible. The Panel adopts the ALJ's credibility determination regarding Employee
GF

Patient B testified that Dr. Basco touched her breasts and back and lowered her pants to
reveal her buttocks. The ALJ found Patient B’s demeanor supported her testimony. The ALJ
found that Patient B’s testimony was sincere, specific, consistent, straightforward, and steady.
The Panel accepts the ALJ’s credibility determination of Patient B.

In contrast, the ALJ found that Dr. Basco’s testimony describing their encounter was
“embellished, exaggerated, and dramatized as to diminish his credibility.” ALJ Proposed
Decision at 42. The ALJ rejected Dr. Basco’s suggestions about Patient B’s motives for lying.
The Panel also rejects this claim. In sum, the ALJ questioned Dr. Basco’s interpretation of
events and declared his version of events flimsy and rebutted. The Panel accepts this finding.

After considering the witness statements and testimony presented by Dr. Basco regarding
his practice of using a chaperone and the direct testimony of Dr. Basco, Patient B, Employee C,
and Employee D about the June 18, 2012 examination of Patient B, the Panel concludes that the

ALJ correctly determined that Dr. Basco sexually touched Patient B.

> Dr. Basco also argues that the ALJ should have considered Dr. Basco’s prior disciplinary
history as proof of his use of a chaperone. As mentioned previously, however, Dr. Basco had
argued the opposite, that the ALJ should not have admitted Dr. Basco’s prior discipline at all.
The Panel agreed with the ALJ’s use of the prior discipline in this case only for purposes of
considering a sanction.
Il. _Investigator’s and Physician A’s Statements — (Respondent’s Exception 3)

Dr. Basco argues that the ALJ erred by failing to consider testimony of Physician A or
the investigator that he hired related to the investigation conducted regarding the allegations of
Patient B. Physician A hired an attorney to investigate Patient B’s complaint. The investigator
reviewed Patient B’s written complaint and interviewed Dr. Basco over the telephone. The
investigator did not interview Patient B. The investigator did not attempt to locate or identify the
chaperone that Dr. Basco claimed was present at the appointment, nor did he interview any
chaperone. Physician A and the investigator concluded that Dr. Basco did not engage in the
conduct alleged by Patient B. The investigator testified at the hearing before the ALJ about Dr.
Basco’s denial of Patient B’s allegations. Dr. Basco asks the Panel to consider the conclusions
of these witnesses and reject the conclusions of the ALJ. The Panel denies this request.

Dr. Basco suggests that the ALJ should have relied on the investigator’s investigation and
adopted his conclusion, and, by implication, discounted her own credibility determinations. In
contrast to the investigator’s phone interview with Dr. Basco, the testimony heard by the ALJ
was in-person and under oath. The ALJ observed testimony from each of the persons who
claimed to be present: Patient B, Dr. Basco, and the alleged chaperone, Employee D. The Panel
rejects Dr. Basco’s suggestion that the ALJ should have disregarded her own impressions of the
live testimony and instead should have substituted the investigator’s second-hand impressions.

In addition, Maryland law does not permit opinion testimony on the credibility of other
witnesses. Riggins v. State, 155 Md. App. 181, 206 (2004). “It is the settled law of this State
that a witness, expert or otherwise, may not give an opinion on whether he believes a witness is
telling the truth. Testimony from a witness relating to the credibility of another witness is to be

rejected as a matter of law.” Bohnert v. State, 312 Md. 266, 278 (1988). “Whether a witness on
the stand personally believes or disbelieves testimony of a previous witness is irrelevant, and
questions to that effect are improper, either on direct or cross-examination.” Jd. at 277. In his
exceptions, Dr. Basco highlights in bold and underlines the sections of the investigator’s
testimony related to whether he believed Dr. Basco was telling the truth and the reasons for that
belief. The Panel finds this evidence improper witness bolstering and gives it little weight.

Dr. Basco also asks the Panel to find that Physician A was correct when he concluded
that there was no “concrete evidence” of sexual misconduct by Dr. Basco. According to State
Gov’t § 10-213(d), the Panel may exclude evidence that is incompetent, irrelevant or immaterial.
Generally, opinions by lay witnesses are “limited to those opinions or inferences which are (1)
rationally based on the perception of the witness and (2) helpful to a clear understanding of the
witness’s testimony or the determination of a fact in issue.” Md. Rule 5-701. Crucially, the
admissibility is premised on the fact that it is “derived from first-hand knowledge.” Robinson vy,
State, 348 Md. 104, 118 (1997). Lay opinion based on information learned from third parties
rather than first-hand knowledge is generally inadmissible. Smith v. State, 182 Md. App. 444,
491 (2008). In Smith, the Court of Special Appeals found that a detective was not permitted to
offer an opinion based on the hearsay statements of the witnesses rather than first-hand
knowledge. Physician A’s opinion about sufficiency of the evidence against Dr. Basco was
based on the investigator’s oral report relaying his interview with Dr. Basco, not based on
Physician A’s first-hand knowledge. The Panel declines to give Physician A’s opinion any
weight and concludes that the ALJ properly decided not to adopt Physician A’s opinion.

IV. Adequacy of the Charges — (Respondent’s Exception 4)
Dr. Basco claims that the ALJ committed error because she failed to find that the Board’s

investigation was incomplete and inadequate to support the charges. The adequacy of the
