IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ASHEESH KUMAR, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D74085 * Case Number: 2222-0128
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On July 26, 2022, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B” or the “Panel”) of the Maryland
State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Asheesh Kumar, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D74085, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.). Panel B charged
the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the Act:
Health Occ. § 14-404. License denial, suspension, or revocation.
(a) In general. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,

place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(3) Is guilty oft

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;

(9) Provides professional services:
(i) While under the influence of alcohol[.]

On September 28 2022, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for
Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result
of this DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B makes the following findings of fact:
I. BACKGROUND

1. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
or about May 1, 2012, under License Number D74085. The Respondent allowed his license
to lapse on or about September 30, 2016. He was later reinstated on September 7, 2021.
On July 13, 2022, the Respondent’s license was summarily suspended by Panel B. On July
28, 2022, the summary suspension was affirmed by Panel B after a postdeprivation hearing.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in anesthesiology and anesthesiology,
critical care medicine.

3. The Respondent practiced medicine at a health care facility (the “Facility”)!
that has several locations in Maryland and in Washington, DC.

4. The Respondent began working at the Facility on February 14, 2022, and he

was terminated on April 7, 2022.

' To ensure confidentiality and privacy, the names of individuals and entities involved in
this case, other than the Respondent, are not disclosed in this document.

2
practice of medicine, the panel will terminate the suspension and the Respondent will be
placed on probation for a minimum of two years and will be required to remain enrolled
in, and participate in, MPRP, and the Respondent shall remain compliant with the terms of
MPRP participation as set forth in suspension condition 1.c — f. The probation will also be
under the terms and conditions generally applied to probation. _If, after considering
MPRP’s recommendation, the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall remain in effect until
it is determined by a disciplinary panel that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the
practice of medicine, and that return to practice would also include a minimum two year
probations as described above; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order goes into effect upon the signature of the
Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director signs the Consent Order on behalf
of Board Disciplinary Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If a disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if a disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
Respondent shail be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

il
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend the
Respondent’s license with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or
more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and
it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14~411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

1ofzifeoee Signature On File

Date Christine A. Farrelly, Exedutive Director /
Maryland State Board of Ph¥sicians

 

CONSENT

I, Asheesh Kumar, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seg.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.
I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

Signature On File

(hOCT Ue22 pe
Date Asheesh Kumar, M.D.

Respondent

NOTARY
STATE OF Disieicr_o¥ columbia
CITY/COUNTY OF _ Washington
mn
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on __ this day of

O¢t ocr , 2022, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

 

State and City/County, did personally appear Asheesh Kumar, M.D. and made oath in due
form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and seal.

 

"ny,

Se Mee,

My commission expires: [0 | 3\ / 24

13

 

te,
4 .
re
5. On or about April 12, 2022, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
(the “Report”) from the Facility. According to the Report, the Respondent exhibited
indicators of impairment and/or intoxication while working at the Facility on April 5, 2022.

6. The Report stated that the Respondent acknowledged being under the
influence of alcohol while at work at the Facility on April 5, 2022. The Facility terminated
his employment effective April 7, 2022,

Il. INVESTIGATION

7. The Board initiated an investigation based on the Report from the Facility.
The Board notified the Respondent of its investigation by letter dated April 25, 2022 and
directed him to provide a written response. |

8. As part of the investigation, Board staff interviewed the Respondent and
several of his colleagues.
A. The Respondent’s Written Response

9. By letter dated May 9, 2022, the Respondent provided a written response in
which he wrote that he “take[s] full responsibility for [his] conduct on April 5, 2022.”

10. The Respondent wrote, “on April 4, 2022, I consumed wine in the evening.
I went to sleep but woke up at approximately 1:00 a.m. or 2:00 a.m. with anxiety and made
the unfortunate decision to consume more wine in an attempt to quell that anxiety.
Although I do not specifically recall the precise amount of wine I consumed, it was less
than one bottle of rosé wine.”

B. Facility Physician 1

 
11. On May 18, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of a
Facility physician (“Facility Physician 1”) who directly supervised the Respondent at the
Facility. He was contacted on the morning of April 5, 2022, after fellow coworkers became
concerned with the Respondent’s behavior.

12. Facility Physician 1 stated that he was contacted by another anesthesiologist
who asked him to.check in on the Respondent because the Respondent was “acting funny”
and the anesthesiologist was concerned that the Respondent would not be able to work.

13. The Respondent had provided anesthesiology services for two or three
pediatric patients that morning, The anesthesiologist advised Facility Physician 1 that the
Respondent was acting sleepy and sluggish, sleeping in the corner between cases, and
taking a long time to do basic tasks.

14. Facility Physician 1 contacted his superior, Facility Physician 2, to inform
her of these concerns. Facility Physician 1 then called the Respondent and asked him “what
was going on.” The Respondent replied that he was “not feeling well and was tired.”
Facility Physician 1 immediately advised the Respondent to stop working and go upstairs
to the office.

15, Facility Physician 1 met with the Respondent in the office and again asked
him “what was going on.” The Respondent stated that he did not feel well and was
otherwise very vague. Facility Physician 1 directed the Respondent to go to the Facility’s

urgent care department to be evaluated.
16. Facility Physician 1 later followed up with the Respondent who advised that
the lab results came back positive for alcohol, but the Respondent did not provide a further
explanation.

17. The Respondent was terminated from his employment at the Facility on April
7, 2022.

18. Facility Physician 1 stated that he was recently advised that the Respondent
was working at another health care facility and “has serious concerns about [the
Respondent] practicing and being out there now doing what he is doing.”

C. Facility Physician 2

19. On May 31, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of Facility
Physician 2. Facility Physician 2 acts in a supervisory capacity and oversees the clinical
operations and oversight of physicians across multiple specialties who provide clinical care
at the Facility.

20. ‘Facility Physician 2 was contacted by Facility Physician 1 with concerns
about the Respondent’s behavior on the morning of April 5, 2022.

21. ‘The staff of the urgent care department provided Facility Physician 2 with
the results of the Respondent’s evaluation and testing results.

22, A termination meeting was held on April 7, 2022. Facility Physician 1,
Facility Physician 2, and the Respondent were present. The Respondent explained that he
was overwhelmed due to many recent stressors in his personal life. The Respondent was

very teary and remorseful during the termination meeting and stated that he would be
willing to take daily breathalyzer tests, daily alcohol tests, or whatever it took to keep his
job, The Respondent stated that he had already engaged in rehabilitative efforts.

23. Facility Physician 2 expressed concerns that “this may be a repeat event...
where the Respondent may present to work impaired,” so Facility Physician 2 “has no trust
in that [the Respondent] can safely take care of patients, anesthetizing patients, and
sedating them.”

D. Interview of Physician Anesthesiologist

24. On May 20, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the
Physician Anesthesiologist. The Physician Anesthesiologist had worked with the
Respondent once in a clinical setting on or about March 10, 2022.

25. On that day, the Physician Anesthesiologist noticed the smell of alcohol on
the Respondent while they were caring for pediatric patients at approximately 9:00 a.m.
and later again that afternoon. On both occasions, the Physician Anesthesiologist was
standing just a few feet away from the Respondent and they were both wearing masks.

26. The Physician Anesthesiologist told Board staff, “I am very concerned that
a physician on his first day of working at a brand-new site that he has never been to—who
is taking care of patients, particularly pediatric patients—to possibly be drinking while at
work, I am concerned for his health, I am concerned for his judgment, and I—I only hope
that from here he is getting professional help.”

E. Interview of the Respondent

27. On June 15, 2022, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the

Respondent. In this interview, the Respondent stated, “I can’t believe that this—that I

6
allowed this to happen, and I take full responsibility for it. I don’t have any excuses for
what I did, and I don’t pretend to provide any, but I can provide some background.”

28. The Respondent explained that he has had several issues lately that have
created a lot of stress and anxiety in his life. He stated, “I was overwhelmed. I was having
panic attacks, anxiety attacks, I just kept thinking about that over and over.”

29, The Respondent acknowledged that he began drinking at approximately 2:00
p.m. on April 4, 2022 and continued throughout the day and into the morning hours of
April 5, 2022. The Respondent stated:

I started drinking on Monday afternoon, which was the 4th, I had tried to get

through the entire weekend and was having a lot of flashbacks, a lot of panic.

And starting Monday afternoon, I came home, and I would say over the

course of Monday afternoon to Tuesday morning, drank a bottle of wine...

Thad a glass, I was exhausted. I went to bed. I woke up—at this point things

are hazy, so I’m not going to—unfortunately, I don’t know the exact timeline,

but I remember waking up throughout the course of the night and still just

being in a panic and have another glass, have another glass. The last glass

that I had was about 3:00 in the morning.

30. The Respondent admitted that when he woke up for his shift at 5:00 a.m. on
April 5, 2022, he felt under the influence. The details of the day are “hazy” for him, but he
recalls doing “pediatric gastroenterology patients, kids’ colonoscopies or endoscopies.” He
stated, “I don’t recall exactly what my interactions were. I know I was helping the other
physician with the cases. On the second case that we did I started a peripheral IV.” He
believes that he was taken out of the room after starting the second case and directed to go
to the office and later to the urgent care.

31. As a result of this relapse, the Respondent offered to undergo treatment

measures to address his medical condition.
32. | The Respondent denied being under the influence or impaired in any way
while working prior to the April 5, 2022 event. When asked about the observations of the
Physician Anesthesiologist on March 10, 2022, the Respondent claimed that he had
leftovers for lunch which consisted of his mother’s chicken that she makes with red wine
sauce. He denied consuming any alcohol on March 9 or 10 of 2022 and maintained that he
had been sober for two and a half years prior to his relapse in April 2022.

33. In the interview, the Respondent acknowledged that he was working at
another health care facility as a staff anesthesiologist at the time. The Respondent did not
inform that employer of the circumstances under which he left the Facility and was
terminated on April 7, 2022. The Respondent stated, “I have not told them the exact
circumstances of leaving [the Facility]. It’s not obviously something I am proud of. ’m
scared.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that the Respondent: is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); is professionally,
physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); and
provided professional services while under the influence of alcohol, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(9)(i).

ORDER
It is, thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:
ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension, issued on July 13, 2022, and

affirmed, on July 28, 2022, is terminated as moot based upon the suspension ordered under
this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that Respondent Asheesh Kumar, M.D. is REPRIMANDED; and it is

further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland is SUSPENDED? for a minimum period of SIX MONTHS.’ During the
suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the following conditions of suspension:

1, The Respondent shall enroll, and participate, in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to

? During the suspension period, the Respondent shall ‘not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of
medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

3 Tf the Respondent’s license expires while the Respondent is on suspension, the suspension
period, and any conditions of suspension, will be tolled.

9
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information to MPRP. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities verbal
and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is
authorized to receive the health care records of the Respondent. The Respondent
shall not withdraw his release/consent; and

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions

including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order; and

2. Within six months, the Respondent is required to take and successfully
complete a course in professionalism. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course begins;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(c) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal; and

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of the suspension, the minimum period of suspension imposed by this Consent Order has
passed, and MPRP recommends that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice
of medicine, the Respondent may petition the Board for the termination of suspension. The
Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition.

If a Board disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the

10
