IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

ALEXANDRA GOLD, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D74407 x Case Number: 2014-0486

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER
BACKGROUND

The Maryland Board of Physicians (the “Maryland Board”) received information
that Alexandra Gold, M.D.., (the “Respondent”), License Number D74407, was
disciplined by the Delaware Board of Medical Licensure and Discipline (the “Delaware
Board”) based upon a guilty plea to one count of maintaining a drug-involved premises.
In an Order dated October 7, 2014, the Delaware disciplined the Respondent by
permanent revocation of her medical license.

Based on the above referenced Delaware sanction, the Maryland Board has
grounds to charge the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), under H. O. § 14-404(a):

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(21) _ Is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary
authority or convicted or disciplined by a court of
any state or country or disciplined by any branch of
the United States uniformed services or the

Veteran’s Administration for an act that would be
grounds for disciplinary action under this section,
The Maryland Board has determined that the acts for which the Respondent was
disciplined in Delaware would be grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-404(a).
The grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-404(a) are as follows:

(3) Is guilty of:

(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine;
(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(27) Sells, prescribes, gives away, or administers drugs for illegal or
illegitimate medical purposes.

Based on the action taken by the Delaware Board, the Respondent agrees to enter
into this Consent Order with the Maryland Board of Physicians, consisting of Procedural
Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order of reciprocal action.

I. FINDINGS OF FACT
The Board finds the following:

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was a physician licensed to
practice Obstetrics and Gynecology in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was
initially licensed in Maryland in June, 2012.

25 In November, 2013, the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) filed
a criminal complaint alleging that the Respondent violated: (i) 21 U.S.C. § 841 (a)(1)
(knowingly and intentionally possessing with the intent to distribute a controlled
substance) by participating in the sale of controlled substances over the internet via the
website “Silk Road,” by shipping controlled substances through the mail in boxes of
candy, and by utilizing an on-line alias identity and a shipping address registered to a
fictitious company; and (ii) 21 U.S.C. § 846 (conspiracy to distribute a controlled

substance).
3 The Respondent was also arrested and charged in Delaware with at least
one count of violation of 21 U.S.C. § 856(a)(1), a federal criminal law that renders it a
felony to knowingly and intentionally maintain and use a dwelling for the purpose of
unlawfully manufacturing and distributing controlled substances.

4. At the time of her arrest, the Respondent admitted that she engaged in
packing controlled substances in candy boxes for distribution via mail, including Xanax,
Oxycodone and Adderall.

3; As a result of the Respondent’s actions, the Maryland Board summarily
suspended the Respondent’s medical license in this State on February 25, 2014, and
continued the summary suspension on March 14, 2014.)

6. On June 18, 2014, the Respondent pleaded guilty to the federal charge of
violating 21 U.S.C. § 856. By Order dated October 7, 2014, the Delaware Board
permanently revoked the Respondent’s medical license. A copy of the Delaware Order is
attached hereto.

II. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Maryland Board concludes as a
matter of law that the disciplinary action taken by the Delaware Board against the
Respondent constitutes a violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21) (is disciplined by a
licensing or disciplinary authority of any state for an act or acts that would be grounds for
disciplinary action under this section). The Respondent’s acts would violate Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(3)G) Gmmoral conduct in the practice of medicine) and (ii) (unprofessional
' The Respondent’s medical license in Maryland expired on September 30, 2014. With respect to the

medical license of an individual the Board regulates, however, “the license [may not] lapse by operation of
law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” H.O. § 14-403(a).
conduct in the practice of medicine) and (27) (sells, prescribes, gives away, or
administers drugs for illegal or illegitimate purposes) if committed in this state.
Ill. ORDER:
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is hereby:
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland be and is hereby PERMANENTLY REVOKED; and be it further
ORDERED that this CONSENT ORDER is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant

to Md. State Gov’t Code Ann. § 10-611 et seq. (2009 Repl. vol.).

 

Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

HHZ a014 Parties f telly
Datd Christine A. Farrelly /)

CONSENT
I, Alexandra Gold, M.D., acknowledge that I have had the opportunity to consult
with counsel before signing this document. By this Consent, I admit to the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law, and I agree and accept to be bound by this Consent Order
and its conditions and restrictions. I waive any rights I may have had to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.
I acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the

conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to
all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I acknowledge the
legal authority and the jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue
and enforce this Consent Order. I also affirm that I am waiving my right to appeal any
adverse ruling of the Board that might have followed any such hearing.

I sign this Consent Order after having had an opportunity to consult with counsel,
without reservation, and I fully understand and comprehend the language, meaning and

terms of this Consent Order. I voluntarily sign this Consent Order, and understand its

meaning and effect.

\\ [3 | \&
Date

 

 

STATE OF

CITY/COUNTY OF

I HEREBY CERTIFY thatonthis__day of , 2014, before
me, the subscriber, a Notary Public for the State and City/County aforesaid, personally
appeared Alexandra Gold, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that the execution of
the foregoing Consent Agreement was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and my notarial seal

Notary Public
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:

‘J Wo baste4 CASE MANAGER,

Authorized by the Act of July 7, 1955, as
amended, to administer oaths (18 U.S.C. § 4004

V]3faord. “Tey Col FES ep Abt, PA IGG

OC te /
EAL D HAD DOC UA penn, ¥Bo rich St P
