IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

EYAKO WURAPA, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D76100 * Case Number: 2222-0051A

Raw KKK RRR KRARREHAK KARR KAKO KR RR OK RK KK ok

CONSENT ORDER
On February 15, 2022, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland
State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged EYAKO WURAPA, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D76100, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §§ 14-101 er seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.).
The pertinent provisions of the Act provide the following:

Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and
revocations -- Grounds.

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) _ Is guilty of:

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine;

(4) _Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;
(7) — Habitually is intoxicated;
(9) Provides professional services:

(i) While under the influence of alcohol; or

(ii) While using any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the

1
Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is in
excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid
medical indication;

(11) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the
practice of medicine[.]

On March 9, 2022, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
- Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of F indings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT.
Panel A finds:
I. BACKGROUND
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on May 21, 2013, under License Number D76100. The
Respondent’s license is currently suspended as of January 27, 2022.!

2. The Respondent is board-certified in family medicine.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as a physician at

an urgent care center that provides immediate walk-in treatment for illnesses and injuries,

 

‘On January 27, 2022, the Board issued an Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine.
By letter dated February 10, 2022, following a post-deprivation hearing held on February 9, 2022, before
Panel A, the Board reaffirmed the summary suspension order.

2
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. §§ 14-
404(a): (3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (4) Is
professionally, physically or mentally incompetent; (7) Is habitually intoxicated; (9)
Provides professional services: (i) While under the influence of alcohol; or (ii) While using
any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical
indication; and (11) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
medicine.

QRDER

 

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent, Eyako K. Wurapa, M.D., License No. D76100, is
REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Order of Summary Suspension pertaining to the Respondent,
issued on January 27, 2022, pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2), is affirmed but
TERMINATED as moot based upon the disposition of the February 15, 2022 charges,
which is set forth in this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondents license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED®
for a minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR from the date of the Order for Summary

Suspension issued on January 27, 2022, and until the Maryland Physician Rehabilitation

6 If the Respondent's license expires while he is on suspension, the suspension and suspension conditions will
be tolled.

ll
Program (“MPRP”) finds and notifies the Board that the Respondent is safe to return to the
practice of medicine; and it is further

ORDERED that during the period of suspension, the Respondent shall comply with
the following terms and conditions of the suspension:

(1) — The Respondent shall not:
(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold
himself or herself out to the public as a current provider of
medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name
or provider number by any health care practice or any other
licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or
other medical care facility in the state;

(e) prescribe or dispense medications; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.
(2) | The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days from the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial
consultation for enroliment;

(b) Within 15 business days from the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with
all MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not
limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

12
(d) The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to
the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information
from MPRP records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall
not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms
to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current
therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to
receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(f) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms
or conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of a ONE (1) YEAR suspension from
the date of the Order for Summary Suspension of January 27, 2022 has passed, and after
the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of suspension, and upon a report
from MPRP to the Board that the Respondent has complied with all of the requisite referrals
and treatment and is safe to resume the practice of medicine, the Respondent may submit
a written petition to the Board requesting termination of suspension. The Respondent may
be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination.
After consideration of the petition, if the disciplinary panel determines that is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through

an order of the disciplinary panel; and it is further

13
ORDERED that, upon termination of the suspension imposed by this Consent
Order, the Respondent will be placed on PROBATION for a minimum of EIGHTEEN
(18) MONTHS.’ During probation, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms
and conditions of probation:

(1) The Respondent shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program:

(a) The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply
with all MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including,
but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation
Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings
as directed by MPRP;

(b) The Respondent shall sign and update the written
release/consent forms requested by the Board and MPRP,
including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make
verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and
files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

(c) The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to
and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and .
to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental
health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.
The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(d) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above
terms or conditions including terms or conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant

Tif the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will
be tolled.

14
Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent
Order;

(2) The Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has
passed, the Respondent may submit to the Board a written petition for termination of
probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an
order of the disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be required to appear before the
disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant
the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel, if the
Respondent has complied with all probationary terms and conditions and there are no
pending complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that, a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an administrative law judge of the Office
of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;

and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,

15
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend the
Respondent’s license with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or
more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and
it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6), (2021 Repl. Vol.).

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, Executiv Director7 :
Maryland State Board of hiv Di

 

16
CONSENT

I, Eyako Wurapa, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document,

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which [ would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms. Signature O n F ile

Zh [7 [ap 2--

 

7
NOTARY

stare or Mureflund

CITY / COUNTY OF Mev oY Dyriesi(y
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this _{. {to day of _/ l lov C ly 2022,

before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared
Eyako Wurapa, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent

Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

   
     

 

      

ya é
“AV age ee,

4 ES %
~ ae ® re
e¥e ge: _
rye Se:
90x 4. ve

ate am . . 4 /|S/,

CN alia aa My Commission expires: O i 5[J225

18
wellness exams, and employer health services (the “Center”? located in Washington
County, Maryland.

4. On or about September 10, 2021, the Board received a Mandated _10-Day
Report (the “Report”) from the Center which reported that the Respondent’s employment
was terminated following a violation of the Center’s policy and procedure and for
providing professional services while appearing to be under the influence or otherwise in
an unsafe state of mind to practice medicine.

5. On receipt of the Report, the Board initiated an investigation into the
allegations.

I. BOARD INVESTIGATION

Respondent’s Written Response

6. Shortly after receiving the Mandated 10-Day Report, Board staff reached out
to the Respondent and requested that he provide a response to the assertions made in the
Report that he appeared to be providing professional services while under the influence or
otherwise in an unsafe state of mind.

7. By letter dated October 4, 2021, the Respondent provided the following
information:

During my service in the US Army I sustained a left knee injury. I
recently had a procedure to help with the pain and was given pain

medications (Percocet) that I have used sparingly for pain control. On
the said date I did use the medication due to pain and insomnia. Have

et

2 For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in
this case are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of alt individuals and
health care facilities referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

3
since stopped the medication and using motrin 800mg for pain
control.

Respondent’s Medical Record

8. As part of its investigation, Board staff obtained the Respondent’s permission
to subpoena his recent hospital records.

9. According to subpoenaed records, on May 5, 2021, the Respondent
underwent a left knee arthroscopic medial meniscectomy. The Respondent was prescribed
Percocet 5/325mg upon discharge.>

Quality Assurance/Risk Management File

10. In furtherance of the investigation, Board staff obtained the Quality
Assurance/Risk Management file (the “File”) the Center maintained on the Respondent.
The File documented that on August 30, 2021, the Respondent reported to the Center for
his shift, reporting in late,‘ and saw a few patients. According to the File, the Center
Manager contacted the Regional Medical Director (the “RMD”) regarding concerns that
the Respondent appeared to be under the influence or otherwise in an unsafe state of mind
to practice. The RMD contacted the Respondent and after talking to him, restricted him
from seeing additional patients.

11. The RMD remotely reviewed the patient charts for the patients the
Respondent had already seen that morning and noted that the “documentation was poor.”

Additionally, the RMD found that the Respondent had “prescribed an incorrect antibiotic

 

+ The record is silent on the number of tablets prescribed.
4 Employee time punches for August 30, 2021, reveal that the Respondent clocked in at 9:02am. According
to the Respondent’s appointment log, his first patient checked-in at 8:07am.

4
in a patient who had a known allergy for the antibiotic. The patient called out the error
during the visit... . The patient was upset with the provider’s behavior.” The RMD noted
several other issues with the Respondent’s documentation including: inappropriate labs and
studies ordered; diagnosis inconsistent with documented history and physical; plan
inappropriate for diagnosis; appropriate follow-up plan was not clearly documented.

Interviews of Center Employees Present on August 30, 2021

12. The Board interviewed three (3) Center employees who interacted with the
Respondent on August 30, 2021: a medical assistant/radiographer (the “Assistant”), a
certified registered nurse practitioner (the “CRNP”), and a registered nurse (the “RN”).

_ 13. On January 4, 2022, the Assistant was interviewed by Board staff under oath.
The Assistant stated that shortly after the Respondent’s knee surgery, she had to wake him
when he was sleeping at the desk. On that date, the Respondent disclosed to her that he had
taken his pain medication that day.

14. On August 30, 2021, the Assistant explained how she once again found the
Respondent sleeping at his desk and tapped him on the shoulder to inform him that a patient
was waiting for him.

15. It was approximately 10:00am when the Respondent was asked to stop seeing
patients and to consent to a breathalyzer. The Assistant explained that at 4:42pm she was
asked to perform a breathalyzer on the Respondent. The first breathalyzer was positive
(BAC .182) and so was a second conducted at 4:45pm (BAC .175).

16. On January 7, 2022, the CRNP was interviewed by Board staff under oath.

‘The CRNP stated that she had worked with the Respondent approximately ten (10) times
5
including on August 30, 2021. The CRNP added that the Respondent would often come to
work “very drowsy” and would be “an hour or two late.” On one occasion, approximately
one month prior to the incident, the CRNP asked the Respondent why he was so sleepy.
The CRNP recalled the Respondent saying that he had knee surgery and had taken his
Percocet around 3:00am or 4:00am that morning.

17. Recalling August 30, 2021, the CRNP explained that on other occasions
when the Respondent fell asleep at work, she could easily wake him to remind him that he
had patients waiting, however on that day, it was different. The CRNP added:

{H]e was harder to arouse . . . nothing was startling him. Like if you
try to wake him . . . he’d be right back to sleep. So, it’s, like, he wasn’t
even there. Like, he didn’t hear you at all.

We have phones going off constantly, people talking, patients coming

up to the desk. And he was just slouched down in his chair like this
asleep.

18. In addition, the CRNP observed one of the Respondent’s patients at the front
desk complaining about the care she received from the Respondent that morning. Among
the patient’s complaints was the fact that the Respondent gave the patient paperwork that
had the wrong name on it, he prescribed a medication that she was allergic to, and the
medication prescribed did not address the reason for her visit.°

19. The CRNP noted that at that time she, the Center Manager, and the Assistant

made the decision to alert the RMD of the Respondent’s concerning behavior.

 

5 Records indicate the patient arrived at the Center complaining of lower back pain. The Respondent
diagnosed the patient with acufe pharyngitis and prescribed an antibiotic: “PRESCRIBED cyclobenzaprine
10mg tablet: Take 1 tablet (Oral) every 8 hours PRN ~ Muscle Spasm:, Total 20 (Twenty) tablet{.]”
(Emphasis added)

6
20. The CRNP added that after the Respondent was informed that he was no
longer permitted to see patients, he sat at his desk for the rest of the day and slept. The
CRNP explained that

[T]here were a couple [of times] that when he woke up, he would
wake up and pull a patient — almost like he forgot he wasn’t supposed
to take the patient . . . I think that happened twice, and I spoke to my
manager, I said, you know, he took another patient. And [the RMD]

called him right away, told him not to see that patient... So I took
the patient,

21. On December 23, 2021, the RN was interviewed by Board staff under oath.
The RN explained that of the ten (10) or so times she worked with the Respondent, she
often observed him to be “sleepy” or “overly tired” and he would sleep while on duty at
the Center:
He would fall asleep in his chair. He’d be sitting there at his computer

and just fall asleep. Then wake up easily when you say something, but
like, he falls asleep.

22. The RN explained that she once observed a patient waiting at the front desk
for some paperwork, slam her fists on the desk and tell the Respondent, who had fallen
asleep, to “wake up.”

23. Recalling August 30, 2021, the RN confirmed that the Respondent spent
much of the day sleeping in a chair in the front of the office, within view of patients.

Respondent Interview

24. On January 14, 2022, the Respondent was interviewed by Board staff under
oath with counsel present. The Respondent provided the following information:

a. Following his knee surgery on May 5, 2021, he was prescribed 10-
15 tablets of Percocet.
b. He returned to work on May 8, 2021.

c. On August 29, 2021, he went for a run and was experiencing pain.
At approximately 9:00pm, he took one Percocet and the pain
subsided. At approximately 1:00am on August 30, 2021, he awoke
in pain and took some Tylenol.

d. At approximately 2:00am, the Respondent explained that “I was
still up, I had a total shift in front of me and | -- at that point...
made the wrong decision of going down[stairs] to take a shot of
whiskey. Actually, two.”

e. After arriving at work, he saw “maybe one or two patients” and
then fell asleep.

f. He was woken up by the Center Manager -: “she just woke me up
to say, hey, we have some patients. That’s when I decided to see
patients again.”

g. He received approximately three (3) calls from the RMD telling
him to stop seeing patients.

h. He did try to see a few “non-medical” patients to “help keep the
flow going” but was told once again by the RMD to stop seeing
patients.

i. He took a breathalyzer that was positive.

j. He called a friend who lived nearby to drive him home from the
Center. The friend drove him home and the friend’s wife drove his
car so it would not be left at the Center.

k. He gave the remaining four (4) Percocet tablets from his original
prescription to a friend who had “run out of his” prescription
following surgery.

1. He would often doze offa little at work due to his work schedule,
especially if “given the chance to sit down.”

25. | When asked if he believed he was under the influence of the Percocet and
alcohol on August 30, 2021, the Respondent stated: “I’ve never slept at work, so I must

have been.”
Maryland Physician Health Program (“MPHP”) Records

26. On or about January 14, 2022, the Respondent gave written consent to the
Board to access his MPHP records for use in the investigation.

27. On or about October 1, 2019, MPHP received a referral from the
Respondent’s prior employer, an urgent care center (“Center 2”), documenting concerns
regarding the Respondent’s use of alcohol prior to his shift. During the shift, the
Respondent reportedly had difficulties with the electronic medical record (EMR) and
contacted a physician assistant (the “PA”) to assist. The PA was unable to assist the
Respondent over the phone, so she went to the site. Upon arriving, the PA noted that the
Respondent was having difficulty recalling the patients he had seen and what care he had
rendered, The Respondent also smelled of alcohol. The Respondent denied, then admitted
that he had been drinking prior to his shift.

28. According to records, the Respondent was contacted by MPHP and explained
that in 2019 he was working PRN at Center 2 and on the day in question, he. was not
scheduled to work. While at a retirement party for a military colleague, Center 2 called him
and asked him to come in to cover for an ill physician. He accepted and went to Center 2
directly from the party.

29. On or about December 1, 2021, the Respondent self-referred to MPHP
following his termination from the Center, On or about December 13, 2021, the
Respondent had an initial evaluation with MPHP staff.

30. On December 15, 2021, the Respondent submitted to a urine toxicology

screen as part of the MPHP intake process. On December 30, 2021, the results were

9
confirmed to be positive for alcohol. On January 6, 2022, the lab’s medical review officer
contacted the Respondent to inform him of the positive result.
31. During the interview with Board staff, the Respondent referenced this
positive result and explained:
Prior to the — the urine test, which I did on the 15", I was in

Philadelphia on the 12" -- my goddaughter’s birthday ... we had some
drinks that day.

Respondent’s 2021 Renewal Application

32. Onor about September 27, 2021, the Respondent completed his 2021 license
renewal application (the “Application”) and electronically submitted it to the Board. In the
section of the Application titled “Character and Fitness Questions,” the Board required the
Respondent to answer “YES” or “NO” to a series of questions for the period of July 1,
2019, through the date of the Application’s submission.

33. The Respondent answered “NO” to Question 14, which states: “Has your
employment or contractual relationship with any hospital, HMO, other health care facility,
health care provider, or institution, armed services or the Veterans Administration ever
been terminated for disciplinary reasons?”

34. At the conclusion of the Application, the Respondent certified that he

- personally reviewed all responses to the items in the Application and that the information
provided was true and accurate to the best of his knowledge.

35. According to the documents and information obtained from the Center, the

Respondent’s employment was terminated on August 31, 2021.

10
