 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

DARRELL E. LEWIS, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D76104 * Case Number: 2223-0069 B
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On June 12, 2023, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”). charged DARRELL E. LEWIS, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D76104, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’’),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act provide the following:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations
— Grounds.

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;

(11) Willfully makes or files a false report in the practice of
medicine;
(17) Makes a willful misrepresentation in treatment; [and]

(27) Sells, prescribes, gives away, or administers drugs for illegal
or illegitimate medical purposes

On July 26, 2023, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:

I. BACKGROUND

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
May 21, 2013, under License Number D76104.' The Respondent’s license is scheduled to
expire on September 30, 2023.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in anesthesiology.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent practiced at a hospital? (the
“Hospital”) in Maryland until on or about February 24, 2023, when the Respondent

resigned.

On April 11, 2023, the Board Summarily suspended the Respondent’s license.

? To maintain confidentiality, the names of universities, health care facilities, programs, and individuals
will not be identified in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of the universities, health
care facilities, programs, and individuals referenced herein by contacting the administrative prosecutor.
 

 

IL . ‘THE REPORT

4. On or about December 20, 2022, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day
Report (the “Report”’) from the Hospital. The Report stated that the respondent “was placed
on precautionary suspension pending further information regarding potential impairment.”

5. The Board conducted an investigation into the Report.

Il. THE BOARD INVESTIGATION

6. In furtherance of the investigation, the Board, among other things,
subpoenaed the Respondent’s quality assurance/risk management (“QA/RM7”) file, human
resources/personnel file, and the investigative file regarding the Report (the “Investigative
File”); conducted an under-oath interview of the Pharmacy Director at the Hospital who
conducted an audit of the Respondent’s practice of prescribing and dispensing of
medications; and subpoenaed medical and health records of the Respondent.

The Investigative File

7. The Investigative File contained information that in December 2022 the
Respondent engaged in concerning behavior at the Hospital, including while treating
and/or interacting with patients.

8. The Investigative File also contained information regarding an audit of the
Respondent’s prescribing practices which revealed prescribing and dispensing
abnormalities.

Interview of the Pharmacy Director

9. On March 29, 2023, Board investigators interviewed the Pharmacy Director.
 

 

 

Tn an under-oath interview, the Pharmacy Director stated, among other things, that:

a. In December 2022, at the Hospital’s request, he conducted an audit
of the Hospital’s medication dispensing machines, electronic
medical records system, and the Respondent’s prescribing and
dispensing practices (the “Audit”).

b. The Audit reviewed the Respondent’s cases over the prior year,
which exceeded seven thousand cases, and identified numerous
suspected diversion events involving the Respondent.

c. He concluded that the Respondent “failed to follow policies or
accurately document disposition of controlled dangerous
substances dispensed from the Hospital’s medication dispensing
machines.”?

The Respondent’s Medical and Health Records

10. _ By letter dated February 23, 2023, the Board notified the Respondent of the
investigation and requested that he provide a written response to the Report and authorize
the release of specific medical and health records to the Board.

11. Medical and health records obtained for the Respondent* stated, among other
things,° that on or around February 1, 2023, the Respondent was diagnosed with a medical

condition, and a medical professional opined that the Respondent “cannot work with skill

and safety as an anesthesiologist at this time” and recommended medical treatment.

> The Pharmacy Director explained that Hospital medication dispensing machines require a patient name
and when medication is withdrawn, an electronic medical record containing an order for the medication is
created for the patient.

4 By email dated March 9, 2023, the Respondent, among other things, authorized the release of the
requested medical and health records to the Board.

* For confidentiality reasons, specific information in the Medical Records and Health Records, including
but not limited to evaluations and diagnoses, will not be disclosed in this document. This information was
known to the Respondent.
 

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board concludes as a
matter of law that the Respondent: is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); is professionally, physically, or
mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); willfully made or filed a
false report in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11); made
a willful misrepresentation in treatment, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(17); and
sold, prescribed, gave away, or administered drugs for illegal or illegitimate medical

purposes, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(27).

ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board, hereby:
ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that, under this Consent Order, the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland is SUSPENDED for a minimum of ONE (1) YEAR. During the
suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions of the
suspension:

(1) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:
(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment;
(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with
MPRP;
(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)

‘If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any
conditions will be tolled.
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall
fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (1.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent
shall not withdraw his/her release/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a
violation of this Consent Order;

(2) During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold herself out
to the public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care
provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other
medical care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medications; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension, issued on April 11, 2023, is
terminated as moot; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Consent
Order has passed and the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms
and conditions for the suspension and if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the
 

 

Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent may submit a
written petition to the disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of the Respondent's
license. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss
his or her petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through
an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and
conditions it deems appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice, including, but not
limited to, probation and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the
disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice
of medicine, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel
for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may
impose any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before
a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on
the Respondent, and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
-* ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

os|is [2022 Signature On File
Date Christine A. F 1

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT

I, Darrell E. Lewis, M.D. acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms.
| Signature On File
glib] 23

Date Darrell E. Lewis, M.D.
Respondent
 

NOTARY

STATE OF Maryland

CITY/COUNTY OF Inning, Coury s

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on __ this / 6A day of

August: 2023, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

State and City/County, Darrell E. Lewis, M.D., personally appeared and made oath in due

form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and notarial seal.

‘

 

wave MN, Notary Public
‘HF o at
& Aisin % My commission expires: /. 2/ 23 / 2023

EECERR Gg
wy id oe
awe

NOTAy,
Linc, uc,

NER 23.
“pices eS

*eyeyyy nee

a. My”
