IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

IMMIRNE M. OUWINGA, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D78131 * Case Number: 2219-0045B

* * * * * k k * x * & *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board’’) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of IMMIRNE M. OUWINGA, M.D.
(the “Respondent”), License Number D78131, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t
("State Gov't") § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs.
(“COMAR’”) 10,32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively
requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, and the investigatory
information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to Panel B, including the
instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the following facts are true:!

L BACKGROUND

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on June

30, 2014, under License Number D78131. The Respondent’s latest license was given the

expiration date of June 30, 2019.

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with reasonable notice
of the alleged facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete description of the
evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with this matter.
2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent operated a medical practice named
OT Family Medicine, which is located at 10339 Southern Maryland Boulevard, Suite 206,
Dunkirk, Maryland 20754.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in family medicine.

Il. PRIOR BOARD ACTION

4, In or around December 2015, the Respondent self-reported that she had been
arrested for driving while under the influence of alcohol. By letter dated May 9, 2016, the Board
issued the Respondent an Advisory Letter.

Ill. THE COMPLAINT

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a complaint
about her, dated September 24, 2018, from the Chief Medical Officer/Vice President of Medical
Affairs (the “Complainant”Y” of a health care facility (the “Facility”).

6. The Complainant reported that a former patient and friend of the Respondent
(“Individual A”) reported to him that she had become “alarmed” about the Respondent’s
behavior in the past two months. Individual A reported concerns about the following incidents:

a. Individual A observed that the Respondent was highly intoxicated
when she was invited to the Respondent’s residence during the
July 4" weekend and witnessed other instances when the

Respondent was inebriated;

b. The Respondent engaged in attempts at inappropriate physical
contact with Individual A during the July 4" weekend;

c. Individual A discovered prescription bottles with the names of
other patients in the Respondent’s bedroom and personal office;

? For confidentiality reasons, the name of the Complainant, medical facilities and other individuals/entities will not
be disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of any individual/entity referenced herein by
contacting the assigned administrative prosecutor.
d. Individual A observed the Respondent using a marijuana vape pen,
possibly accepts marijuana from patients and was asked by the
Respondent to obtain a medical marijuana card;

e. Individual A recounted that one of the Respondent’s family
members implored her to ensure that the Respondent took certain
medications the family member laid out for her to take;

f. Individual A stated that the Respondent stores alcohol in her
office, accepts alcohol from patients as gifts, and has offered
alcohol to a patient;

g. The Respondent is having an unprofessional relationship with a
patient; and

h. The Respondent became physically violent toward and struck an
office colleague (“Individual B”) in the face, who subsequently left
his employment with her.

7. The Complainant provided notes of his interview of Individual A. The

Complainant stated that he had no way of knowing how accurate Individual A’s accounts were,
but that from a “medical staff and community safety perspective, these allegations are very
concerning.”
IV. SUBSEQUENT BOARD INVESTIGATION

8. As part of the Board’s investigation, Board staff conducted an under-oath
interview of Individual A on October 29, 2018. Individual A confirmed and reiterated the
statements she provided to the Complainant. Individual A also provided Board staff with
photographs of a patient’s prescription bottle she discovered while at the Respondent’s
residence. The medication, which the Respondent prescribed, was for Zolpidem 10 mg
(Zolpidem is a sedative-hypnotic which is prescribed on a short-term basis for insomnia).
Individual A also provided another photograph of a prescription bottle; the label on the

prescription bottle is partially worn off and does not show the patient’s name.
9. Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of Individual B on November 7,
2018. Individual B stated that he began working for the Respondent in or around April 2018 and
that thereafter, tensions arose because the Respondent was failing to create patient charts and
was not submitting bills for services. Individual B confirmed that the Respondent struck him in
the face in or around August 2018 at the practice location after going through his cell phone and
discovering text messages between him, Individual A and a family member of the Respondent in
which they discussed a possible intervention regarding the Respondent’s alcohol use. Since the
incident, Individual B stated that he has not returned to the Respondent’s practice. Individual B
also reported that the Respondent admitted to him that she had engaged in an unprofessional
relationship with a patient. Individual B also noted that one morning when he arrived at the
office, he found the Respondent asleep on an examination bed and noticed two “alcohol bottles”
sitting on a nearby table. Individual B stated that the Respondent explained to him that she had
been working on completing charts the previous night.

10. Pursuant to its investigation, the Board obtained and evaluated the Respondent’s
medical record from a physician who provided medical care to the Respondent.

11. The Board also issued a subpoena to the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program
(“PDMP”), received information in response to that subpoena, and also reviewed the
Respondent’s medication profile from an area pharmacy.

12. On November 13, 2018, Board staff notified the Respondent of the Board’s
investigation and conducted a site visit of the Respondent’s practice. Board staff
observed/photographed the following:

a. Board staff observed the Respondent’s young child in the
Respondent’s personal office;
b. Board staff observed two plastic bags containing empty
prescription pill bottles, most of which were labeled. One of the
bags was located in the Respondent’s prescription sample room.
The second bag was located on the Respondent’s desk. The
Respondent advised that on occasion, her patients return unwanted
medications, which she had staff dispose of. The Respondent
stated she uses the bottles collected when she travels on missionary
trips to Africa;

c. Board staff observed a single white pill, possibly Clonidine,
laying on an end table (approximately four feet high) located in the
back left of the Respondent’s office. When asked, the Respondent
was not able to identify what type of pill or medication it was; and

d. Board staff observed a bottle of gabapentin 300 mg in the
Respondent’s desk’s upper storage area. Gabapentin is a
prescription-only medication that is prescribed to treat neuropathic
pain. The medication was prescribed by a physician who was not a
member of the Respondent’s practice. When questioned regarding
this, the Respondent claimed that her patient returned the
medication to her because of its side effects. The Respondent
stated that she does not personally use this medication because it is
for “nerve pain.”

13. The Board, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402(a),’ referred the Respondent to a
Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an evaluation. The Program directed the
Respondent to undergo a psychiatric/addiction evaluation.

14. On or about December 20, 2018, the Board received a comprehensive evaluation

report regarding the Respondent, dated December 17, 201 8.° The evaluator stated that he “saw

3 Board staff identified this medication by the identifying information (U-136) inscribed on the pill. Clonidine is a
prescription-only, anti-hypertensive medication.

4 Health Occ, § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in
investigation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the
Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative may direct, any
physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination.

> In order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the comprehensive report will not be disclosed in this Order, but
the report will be made available to the Respondent upon request.
significant evidence that [the Respondent’s] personal and professional judgment is impaired” and
concluded that she “poses a risk to her patients in the practice of medicine at this time.”

15. Based on the above investigative facts, Panel B finds that the Respondent presents
a substantial likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public health, safety and welfare.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B of the Board concludes that
the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, and that pursuant
to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license is
summarily suspended.

ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by State Govt. § 10-
226(c)(2)(2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED;
and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a post-
deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, January
30, 2019, at 8:30 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel B, the
Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10) days, an
evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request, before an

Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law
Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and it is further
ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by Panel

B immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel B, and as such, is a public document. See

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(6)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Os /2019

Date

 

 
