Date: 7 [ ( 13 PA Z02Z |

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4!" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Duane M. Stillions, M.D., License Number: D78260
Case Number: 2221-0088

Dear Dr, Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D78260, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that on January 29, 2021, the Board initiated an investigation of my
practice. Based on the investigation, on March 9, 2021, Panel B issued an Order for
Summary Suspension (the “Order”) of my license. The Board also voted to issue
disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(a)(3)(ii)', (8)? & (43),
Specifically, Panel B alleged that I diverted CDS from a healthcare facility where I
practiced medicine. A copy of the Order is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of the Order and the disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the Order and the

 

"Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine

* Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in §5-101
of the Criminal Law Article

* Violates any provision of this title, any rule or regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal
law pertaining to the practice of medicine
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Duane M. Stillions, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

disciplinary charges. 1 acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the
charges will be treated as proven.

T understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 er seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

| affirm that 1 will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
1 apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I
file a petition for reinstatement, | will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position
as an individual whose license has been revoked.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
T have ‘consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
sutrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of
Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and

comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
thirty (30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley,
Maryland 21031-1301; and be it further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order for Summary Suspension shail be filed with
the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol. &
2020 Supp.); and be it further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel B, and, as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-41 1.1(b)(2), and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.

§ 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

 

Christine A. Farrelly, Executivd Director |
Maryland State Board of Physichans u
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Duane M. Stillions, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

veunv ery truly yours,

Signature

Signature on File

-— Duane M. Stilfions, M.D.

NOTARY
STATE OF District of Glumbia
CITY/COUNTY OF (Jéshing ton

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 30 day of _Marceh , 2021

 

before me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Duane M.
Stillions, M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing
of this Letter of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.
AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.
Notary Public

My commission expires: 3/5!/ 2221

 

ACCEPTANCE

 

\

as pai hind
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this day of L 52021,

I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Duane M. Stillions, M.D.’s

license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Sienna Fe e
Signature on File
Christine A. Farrelly

; E xechye Director/
Maryland Board of Physiciars
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

DUANE M. STILLIONS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D78260 * Case Number: 2221-0088

* x * * * x ® x x * * * k

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of DUANE M. STILLIGNS,
M.D. (the “Respondent”), license number D78260, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t
§ 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) concluding that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B and the investigatory
information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to Panel B,
including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the following

1
facts are true:

"The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of
the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete

description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland on July 24, 2014. His license is active and is scheduled to expire on September
30, 2021.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in anesthesiology and critical care medicine.
From 2014 until January 2021, the Respondent was employed by a health care facility
staffing company and primarily practiced as an intensivist at a health care facility located
in Montgomery County, Maryland (“Facility A”).

3. Prior to being licensed in the State of Maryland, the Respondent held a license in
the District of Columbia (D.C.), where the Respondent was employed at a healthcare
facility in the D.C. (the “D.C. Facility”).

4, In approximately May 2009, the Respondent was terminated from the D.C. Facility
after an investigation by the D.C. Facility that determined that the Respondent had misused
and diverted controlled dangerous substances (CDS) at the D.C. Facility. A report of the
investigation was later obtained by the District of Columbia Board of Medicine (“D.C.
Board”).

5. On or about August 18, 2009, the Respondent voluntarily surrendered his license to
practice medicine in D.C.

6. On or about November 16, 2009, (the “D.C. Board”) suspended the Respondent’s

license for at least two years based on the findings of the report of the D.C. Facility.
7, On or about August 22, 2012, the D.C. Board and the Respondent entered into a
Negotiated Settlement Agreement that reinstated the Respondent’s D.C. license. The
agreement required the Respondent to be supervised by a Board-approved anesthesiologist
and to enroll in the D.C. Physician Health Program.

COMPLAINT

8. On or about January 29, 2021, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report” (the
“Complaint’”) stating that effective January 20, 2021, the Respondent’s clinical privileges
and medical staff membership at Facility A had been “summarily suspended” based on

eyewitness accounts and forensic evidence indicating that the Respondent had “diverted a

controlled substance.”

9. Based on the Complaint, the Board began an investigation.

INVESTIGATION

10, In furtherance of the investigation, the Board obtained a written response from the
Respondent to the Complaint, interviewed witnesses, and obtained the Respondent’s
personnel records from Facility A. The evidence obtained indicate that on multiple
occasions when the Respondent was working on the Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU),
he diverted controlled dangerous substance (“CDS”) from patient IV medication pumps.
11. Included with the Respondent’s personnel records were statements to Facility A

from two eyewitnesses, both clinical nurses (“Clinical Nurse A” & “Clinical Nurse B”),

2 See Health Oce. § 14-413.
who directly observed the Respondent diverting a CDS by siphoning from patients’
intravenous medication pumps on multiple occasions.
12. Clinical Nurse A reported that on January 3, 2021, she saw the Respondent

acting weird around an IV pump. He appeared to be manipulating the pump
in some way. ... Later that day the same thing happened with the pump for
room 8...J could tell he was manipulating the pump in some way. ... This
Sunday, January 17, sometime after 4pm I saw him at the medication pump
for the patient un room 12 and he was pulling something from the IV. I
watched him remove the orange cap and withdrawal [sic] something from
the tube. He then took the filled syringe and put it in his pocket.

13. Clinical Nurse A further reported that the pump from which the Respondent

extracted the fluid contained CDS.

14. Clinical Nurse B reported nearly identical observations, specifically that on the

morning of January 16, 2021,

I was standing outside of room 10. From where I was standing, I saw Dr.
Stillions go to the outside of patient room 12 where the patient’s medication
pump was located. The patient in room 12 is a very sick, vented patient on
several drips. Dr. Stillions had a syringe in his hand. At first I thought he was
going to give the patient medication. He opened the orange cap and it fell to
the floor. I then watched Dr. Stillions attach the syringe to the secondary line
and withdrawal [sic] the patient’s medication. I notice that he filled up a 10
ce syringe with the medication and then put the syringe in his chest pocket.
He then took out a second syringe and did the same thing, filling it up with
close to 10 cc of the medication. ... The medication associated with this line
was [CDS].

15. | Clinical Nurse B also reported that the following day, Sunday, January 17, 2021,
she observed the Respondent again diverting CDS using the same modus operandi:

When he came out [of the doctors’ lounge] he went directly to the supply
room first; after the supply room he went straight to the patient’s medication
pump outside room 12. I was outside room 11 at this time. I watched Dr.
Stillions withdrawal [sic] a full syringe of [CDS] from the tube. About this
time, the charge nurse asked me to fill Dr. Stillions in on the status of the

4
patient in room 11. As I spoke to him I noticed that he appeared very

hyperactive. After that when he left, l went back to the room 12 pump and I

saw again that the orange cap was missing from the [CDS] tube.
16. Onor about February 12, 2021, the Board conducted an interview with Facility A
personnel under oath. Facility A personnel stated that after receiving the reports of the
Respondent’s conduct from Clinical Nurses A & B, Facility A conducted a forensic
examination of the medication pump outside room 12. Based on the examination, Facility
A concluded that “there was an amount of medication missing that we could not account
for.” The missing medication was the same CDS Clinical Nurses A & B observed the
Respondent divert.
17. Facility A personnel also stated in the interview with the Board that the patient in
room 12 was under the care of the Respondent when the Respondent was working on the
unit. The patient was an intubated COVID-19 patient. During the COVID-19 pandemic,
the [V medication pumps are located outside the patient rooms.
RESPONDENT’S WRITTEN RESPONSE
18. On or about February 18, 2021, the Board received a written response from the
Respondent regarding the Complaint. In his written response, the Respondent
acknowledged misusing CDS in the past and acknowledged that he “obtained” CDS from

Facility A. He cited as a reason for his diversion of CDS at Facility A the stress of working

as a physician during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Respondent also reported that
immediately after the suspension of his privileges at Facility A, he began a program that
includes rehabilitation treatment.
CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the foregoing investigative findings, Panel B concludes that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), and Md. Code
Regs. 10.32.02.08(B)(7)(a).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing investigative findings and conclusions of law, it is, by a
majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §
10-226(c)(2) and Md, Code Regs 10.32.02.08(B)(7)(a), the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland be and is hereby SUMMARILY
SUSPENDED; and be it further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation Summary Suspension Hearing in accordance
with Md. Code Regs. 10.32,02.08E has been scheduled for Wednesday, March 24, at
1:00 p.m. before Disciplinary Panel B; and be it further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation Summary Suspension
Hearing held before Panel B, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing,
may request within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within

3 The hearing will take place via teleconference due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Respondent will be informed
of the procedure before the hearing.

6
