IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

ANGELA GUCWA, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D78628 * Case Number: 2224-0012 B
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *
ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license to practice medicine of
ANGELA GUCWA, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number D78628, in the State of
Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t
§10-226(c)(2)(2022 Repl. Vol.) and Md. Code Regs. (““COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7),
concluding that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency
action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the
following facts are true:!

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the basis of Panel B’s action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily

represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against
the Respondent in connection with this matter.
Introduction

1. Panel B is summarily suspending the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine after a Board investigation revealed that she has a health condition that affects
her ability to practice medicine safely.

Background/Licensing Information

2. At all relevant times, the Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine
in Maryland on October 10, 2014, under License Number D78628. The Respondent’s
license expires on September 30, 2024, subject to renewal.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in vascular surgery.

4, At all relevant times, the Respondent practiced at a hospital? (the “Hospital”)
in Prince George’s County, Maryland until July 17, 2023, when the Hospital summarily
suspended her clinical privileges after the Respondent attempted to provide medical
services while under the influence of alcohol.

The Report

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a
Mandated 10-Day Report (the “Report”) from the Hospital on August 1, 2023. The Report
stated that the Respondent was “summarily suspended...in accordance with hospital’s
medical staff bylaws to reduce the substantial likelihood that Dr. Gucwa’s exercise of her

clinical privileges would create a reasonable possibility of imminent danger to the health

? For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities referenced herein, will not be disclosed in
this document. The Respondent may obtain this information from the Administrative Prosecutor.
and safety of patients and others at the hospital. The Hospital determined that Dr. Gucwa
was intoxicated at work on June 20.”
Board Investigation

6. The Board subpoenaed and received the Respondent's quality assurance/risk
management (“QA/RM”) file from the Hospital, employee health file from the Hospital,
and treatment records from two health care facilities. The Board also interviewed the Chief
Medical Officer of the Hospital and received a written response from the Respondent.

7. The investigation determined that on June 20, 2023, the Respondent was
intoxicated while at work at the Hospital. On June 20, 2023 at 7:30 a.m., the Respondent
was scheduled to perform an interventional radiology procedure in the ambulatory surgery
center at the Hospital.

8. Staff observed that the Respondent seemed impaired, and instructed her not
to perform the procedure. The Respondent was escorted from the surgical suite, and another
vascular surgeon was called and provided services to the patient.

9. The Respondent was then escorted to employee health unit where she was
interviewed and administered a blood alcohol test, which indicated a blood alcohol level
of .324 (4 times the legal limit).

10. In her written response to the Board, the Respondent admitted she was “in
agreement with the facts as stated in the [10 day] report....I am extremely remorseful for
my behavior and judgment....”

10. On or about August 23, 2023, and with the consent of the Respondent, the

Board obtained medical records for the Respondent which document that in July 2023,
the Respondent was diagnosed with and in the process of being treated for certain medical
conditions.
CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B of the Board concludes
as a matter of law that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires
emergency action, and that pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent’s license is summarily suspended.

ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by State Govt. § 10-
226(c)(2)(2022 Repl. Vol.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and .
it is further

ORDERED that, during the course of the summary suspension, the Respondent
shall not practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a
post-deprivation hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday,
September 27, 2023, at 11:30 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further
> For confidentiality reasons, the specific information in the Respondent’s medical records and evaluation
will not be disclosed in this document. This information will be disclosed to the Respondent upon request.

The Panel reviewed this information prior to the issuance of this Order for Summary Suspension of License
to Practice Medicine.
ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel B,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel B immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2022 Repl. Vol.); and it
is further

ORDERED that this is a disciplinary Order of Panel B, and as such, is a public
document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-

333(b)(6).

Signature On File
09/12/2022

Date Christine A. Farrelly,‘E i ive Directof
Maryland State Board of\Physicians
