IN THE MATTER OF
ANGELA GUCWA, M.D.
Respondent

License Number: D78628

BEFORE THE

MARYLAND STATE

BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

Case Number: 2224-0012 B

* * * * * * * * * * * “* *

CONSENT ORDER
On September 19, 2023, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Angela Gucwa, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D78628, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2022 Repl. Vol.). Panel B charged the Respondent
under the following provisions of the Act:
Health Occ. § 14-404. License denial, suspension, or revocation.

(a) In general. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(7) Habitually is intoxicated; [and] ...

(9) Provides professional services:
G) While under the influence of alcohol[.]
On December 20, 2023, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for
Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result
of this DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B makes the following findings of fact:
Introduction
1. Panel B charged the Respondent with violating the Maryland Medical
Practice Act after she attempted to provide medical services while under the influence of
alcohol.
Background/Licensing Information
2. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in
Maryland on October 10, 2014, under License Number D78628. The Respondent’s license
expires on September 30, 2024, subject to renewal.
3, The Respondent is board-certified in vascular surgery.
4. At all relevant times, the Respondent practiced at a hospital! (the “Hospital”)

in Prince George’s County, Maryland until July 17, 2023, when the Hospital summarily

' For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities referenced herein, will not be disclosed in
this document.
NOTARY

STATE OF [eae Laat
CITY/COUNTY OF fet

I HEREBY CERTIFY that, on this 77% day of
Decemh Lf , 2023_, before me, a Notary Public of the
foregoing State and City/County, did personally appear Angela Gucwa, M.D. and made
oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act
and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and seal.

  

   

 
 

@ PATRICE L

Detar, Bane a cORNSON
Anne Arundel County

My Commission Expires

|
November 02, 2025

   
          

   

My commission expires: /// 22/ LOLS

11

Notary Public fatrie & ZEéEntckeé Bh rsa rt
suspended her clinical privileges after the Respondent attempted to provide medical
services while under the influence of alcohol.
The Complaint

5. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a
Mandated 10-Day Report (the “Report”) from the Hospital on August 1, 2023. The Report
stated that the Respondent was “summarily suspended...in accordance with hospital’s
medical staff bylaws to reduce the substantial likelihood that Dr. Gucwa’s exercise of her
clinical privileges would create a reasonable possibility of imminent danger to the health
and safety of patients and others at the hospital. The Hospital determined that Dr. Gucwa
was intoxicated at work on June 20.”

Board Investigation

6. The Board subpoenaed and received the Respondent's quality assurance/risk
management (“QA/RM”) file from the Hospital, employee health file from the Hospital,
and treatment records from two health care facilities. The Board also interviewed the Chief
Medical Officer of the Hospital and received a written response from the Respondent.

7. The investigation determined that on June 20, 2023, the Respondent was
intoxicated while at work at the Hospital. On June 20, 2023, at 7:30 a.m., the Respondent
was scheduled to perform an interventional radiology procedure in the ambulatory surgery
center at the Hospital.

8. Staff observed that the Respondent seemed impaired and instructed her not
to perform the procedure. The Respondent was escorted from the surgical suite, and another
vascular surgeon was called and provided services to the patient.

3
9. The Respondent was then escorted to the employee health unit where she
was interviewed and administered a blood alcohol test, which indicated a blood alcohol
level of .324 (4 times the legal limit).

10. In her written response to the Board, the Respondent admitted she was “in
agreement with the facts as stated in the [10-Day] report .... lam extremely remorseful for
my behavior and judgment....”

ll. On or about August 23, 2023, and with the consent of the Respondent, the
Board obtained medical records for the Respondent which document that in July 2023, the
Respondent was diagnosed with and in the process of being treated for certain medical
conditions.”

Prior Disciplinary Proceedings

12. In Case Number 2015-0171, the Board and Respondent entered into a non-
public Disposition Agreement after the Respondent answered yes to a character and fitness
question on her initial application for Maryland licensure that she was convicted for driving
with an unlawful alcohol concentration in 2011 in Georgia. As part of the September 24,
2014 Disposition Agreement, the Respondent agreed to enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and comply with all of its terms and conditions, or be

subject to further discipline.

? For confidentiality reasons, the specific information in the Respondent’s medical records and evaluation
will not be disclosed in this document.
13. In Case Number 7715-003, the Board and the Respondent entered in a
Consent Order after the Respondent tested positive for alcohol, marijuana and fentanyl in
violation of her MPRP rehabilitation agreement. The August 7, 2015 Consent Order
concluded as a matter of law that the Respondent violated her non-public Disposition
Agreement with the Board, was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, was addicted to or habitually abused a narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance, and provided professional services while using a narcotic or controlled
substance in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication. The
Consent Order suspended her medical license and required her to stay enrolled in MPRP
and comply with its terms and conditions. The Consent Order also allowed the Respondent
to petition for reinstatement of her medical license if MPRP determines that she is safe to
practice medicine.

14. On October 29, 2015, in Case Number 7716-0009, the Board issued an order
terminating the Respondent’s license suspension and imposing probation for a minimum
of three years. The Respondent also was required to stay enrolled in MPRP and comply
with its terms and conditions.

15. On July 14, 2017, in Case Number 7716-0009, the Board issued an Order
finding that the Respondent violated the terms of her probation. The Board reprimanded
the Respondent and imposed an additional year of probation. The Respondent also was
required to stay enrolled in MPRP and comply with its terms and conditions.

16. On December 21, 2021, in Case Number 7718-0005, the Board issued an
Order terminating the Respondent’s probation.

5
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the findings of fact, Panel B concludes that the Respondent: is guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii); was habitually intoxicated, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(7); and
provided professional services under the influence of alcohol, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(9)G).

ORDER

It is, thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary
Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice
Medicine (“Order for Summary Suspension”), issued against the Respondent, on
September 12, 2023, and the order affirming the Order for Summary Suspension, issued
on September 27, 2023, are terminated as moot based upon the suspension ordered under
this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent Angela Gucwa, M.D. is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland is
SUSPENDED for a minimum period of ONE YEAR, which commences when this Consent Order
goes into effect.? During the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the following
terms and conditions of suspension:

1. During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

3 If the Respondent’s license expires while the Respondent’s license is suspended, the suspension
will be tolled.
(b) take any actions to hold herself out to the public as a current provider of
medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

2. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, requirements, and recommendations, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate
and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information to MPRP. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities verbal
and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is
authorized to receive the health care records of the Respondent. The Respondent
shall not withdraw her release/consent;

(f) if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation
program in another state, the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or
condition of that state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this
Consent Order. The Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state written
release/consent forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and

7
receive from) the out-of-state program verbal and written information concerning
the Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug and
alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw the
release/consent; and

(g) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions

including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or

Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order; and

it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of the suspension, and, after the minimum period of suspension imposed by this Consent
Order has passed, and, if the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of the
suspension and this Consent Order, and MPRP finds and notifies the Board that it is safe
for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, a Board disciplinary panel will
determine whether the suspension is terminated. If a Board disciplinary panel determines
that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will
be terminated, and the disciplinary panel will issue an order with the terms and conditions
it determines are reasonable and appropriate, which may include, but not limited to,
probation and probationary terms and conditions. If, after considering MPRP’s
determination that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the
disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice
of medicine, the suspension shall remain in effect under the terms and conditions the

disciplinary panel finds reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances; and it is

further
ORDERED that this Consent Order goes into effect upon the signature of the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee
signs this Consent Order on behalf of Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If a disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if a disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or impose a further
suspension of the Respondent’s medical license with appropriate terms and conditions, or
revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel
may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary

fine on the Respondent; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File
o1/o4/2024
Date

Christine A. Farrefly\¥ tive DirgCtor
Maryland State Board\of Physicians
CONSENT

I, Angela Gucwa, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405, and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order
instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into, and agree to comply, with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand its language and
the meaning of its terms and conditions.

(2424 ez
Date Chnaeie Ou Guowa, M.D.
Respondent

10

Signature On File
