 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
JENNIFER M. LIAO, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D78756 Case Number: 2017-0472B
* * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) voted to summarily suspend Jennifer M. Liao, M.D., (the “Respondent’),
license number D78756, (the "Respondent"), under the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the "Act"), Md. Code Ann., Heath Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015
Supp.).

Disciplinary Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code
Ann., State Govt § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.) concluding that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

Prior to the igsuance of an Order of Summary Suspension, the Respondent
agreed to enter into the: following Consent Order, consisting of Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law, Order and Consent. .

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on November 18, 2014. Her license is scheduled to expire

on September 30, 2018.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in pediatrics.
3. In or around September 2015, the Respondent began employment at a group
medical practice (“Practice A”) in Baltimore, Maryland.

4. On or about January 11, 2017, Practice A’s Medical Director reported to the
Board multiple instances of the Respondent’s erratic behavior that adversely
affected patient interactions and was disruptive to the operation of the practice.

5. On January 20, 2017, Practice A relieved the Respondent of all duties.

6. The Respondent's duties were relieved based on observations of her erratic,
unprofessional and behaviorally disruptive conduct toward patients, including
pediatric patients, and staff.’

CONCLUSION OF LAW
Based on the foregoing facts, Disciplinary Panel B concludes that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to

Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.).

ORDER
It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary

Panel B, hereby
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED,

subject to the following terms and conditions:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program

(‘MPRP”). Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule

an initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall

enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan

* To maintain confidentiality, specific instances of behavior will not be referenced in this document. The
Respondent has been notified by Practice A of its concerns. The Respondent may obtain from the
Administrative Prosecutor documents related to these instances.

2
with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation
Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested or required by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board, including disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP.
The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol treatment records;

3. The Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that any treatment
provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and to the Board at least once every
three (3) months regarding her attendance, progress, payment of fees, and
recommendations as to the continuation, frequency, and/or termination of treatment.
The Respondent shall sign any consent forms required to authorize Disciplinary Panel B
and the MPRP to receive written reports from her treating mental health and health

professionals or any treatment providers.
AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if and when the MPRP finds that the
Respondent is safe to practice medicine and if the Respondent has complied with
conditions above, the Respondent may petition the Reinstatement Inquiry Panel to lift
the suspension of the Respondent’s license. Upon reinstatement, Disciplinary Panel B
may impose conditions on the Respondent’s return to practice; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent violates any condition of this Consent Order,
including a violation of any term or condition of the MPRP Rehabilitation Agreement and
Rehabilitation Plan, Disciplinary Panel B, in its discretion, after notice and opportunity
for a show cause hearing before Disciplinary Panel B or an evidentiary hearing at the
Office of Administrative Hearings, may impose additional sanctions authorized under
the Medical Practice Act, including a reprimand, suspension, probation, revocation
and/or a monetary fine; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice
Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101—14-702, and all laws and regulations
governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Vol. & 2015 Supp.)

224 2017 Cha wieek:
Da Christine A. Farrel
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
CONSENT

|, Jennifer M. Liao, M.D., acknowledge that | was represented by counsel before
entering this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the purpose of resolving the
issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent
Order and its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority
and jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this
Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of a
disciplinary panel of the Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the

language, meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

Alar

Jennifer M. Liao, M.D.
Respondent

    

afeziiq
Date
NOTARY

STATE OF MARYLAND S

CITY/COUNTY OF _Balhmoye

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this aa day of February 2017, before me,
a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Jennifer M.
Liao, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order
was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

    

Notary Public

My Commission expires: q 32/70
