 

Jennifer M. Liao, M.D.

a7
Sune ZL , 2017

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215-2299

RE: Surrender of Medical License
License Number: D78756
_ Case Number: 2017-0472B

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

| have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D78756, effective immediately. ! understand that upon
surrender of my license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual,
with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in
the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”), §§ 14-101 ef seq.,
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license
means that | am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC. document and on upon
acceptance by Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board’) becomes a FINAL ORDER of the Board.

| acknowledge that on February 24, 2017, | entered into a Consent Order in lieu
of Panel B summarily suspending my medical license after the Board investigated
complaints from my former employer that on multiple occasions | had behaved in an
erratic manner that adversely affected patient interactions and was disruptive to the
operation of the practice. Under the terms of the Consent Order, my medical license
was suspended and | was required to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program. | understand that upon acceptance of this Letter of Surrender by Panel B, the
terms and conditions of the February 24, 2017 Consent Order are terminated as moot
and have no further force or effect.
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
Re: Jennifer M. Liao., M.D.

License Number: D78756; Case Number: 2017-0472B

Page 2

| further acknowledge that on March 30, 2017, Panel B determined that | had
engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, constituting a violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), am professionally, physically or mentally incompetent,
constituting a violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4) and am addicted to, or habitually
abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the
Criminal Law Article. | have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of these disciplinary charges now

pending before Panel B. The Charges are attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Attachment A.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of Panel B’s Charges. If this
case were to proceed to a hearing, | agree that the State would be able to prove the
Charges, and for purposes related to medical licensure, these Charges will be treated
as if proven. | understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, | am waiving any
right to contest the Charges in a formal evidentiary hearing at which | would have had
the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my
own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that Panel B will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Databank
of this Letter of Surrender, and in any response to any inquiry, that | have surrendered
my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in the event | apply for a license
in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of Surrender and the underlying
investigative documents may be released or published by Panel B to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender is considered a
disciplinary action by the Board.

| affirm that on or before the date of Panel B’s acceptance of this Letter of
Surrender, | will provide to Board staff my original Maryland medical license, number
D78756 drug dispensing permit and my most recent renewal license issued by the
Board. | also affirm that | will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered for a minimum period of two (2) years, pursuant to Code
Md. Regs. 10.32.02.06B(2)(a). In the event that | apply for reinstatement of my
Maryland License, | understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant
reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the
integrity and reputation of the profession. | understand that when applying for
reinstatement, | will approach Panel B or its successor in the same posture as one
whose license has been revoked. | also understand that if | apply for reinstatement, |
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
Re: Jennifer M. Liao., M.D.

License Number: D78756; Case Number: 2017-0472B
Page 3

bear the burden of demonstrating my professional competence and fitness to practice
medicine to the satisfaction of Panel B or its successor.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have consulted
with an attorney before signing this Letter of Surrender. | understand both the nature of
Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand
and comprehend the language, meaning, and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Sincerely,
Pentrad- Aap
Jennifer M. Liao, M.D.
NOTARY
FRON INCE
Se OF Colao

CITY/COUNTY OF _ ~ Toronto

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this \ a Gay of Ae ANE 2017,
before me, a Notary Public of the State and City/County aforesaid, personally appeared
Jennifer M. Liao., M. D. and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that

AS WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Notary Public

My Commission expires: Nia Covesa'+ Spire)

  
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
Re: Jennifer M. Liao., M.D.

License Number: D78756; Case Number: 2017-0472B °

Page 4

ACCEPTANCE
On this Cine day of Tne , 2017, |, Christine A. Farrelly, Executive
Director, on behalf of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians,
accept Jennifer M. Liao, M.D.’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of her license to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland.

Christine A. Farrelly, A. irector

Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

I HEREBY ATTEST AND CERTIFY UNDER
PENALTY OF PERJURY ON 0i7
THAT THE FORGOING DOC NTISA

FULL, TRUE AND CORRECT COPY OF THE
ORIGINAL ON FILE IN MY OFFICE AND
IN MY LEGAL. CUSTODY,

 
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
JENNIFER M. LIAO, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D78756 Case Number: 2017-0472B
* * * * * * * * *

*

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT

 

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby charges Jennifer M. Liao M.D., (the “Respondent’), License Number
D78756, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act"), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.):

The pertinent provisions of the Act under H.O. § 14-404(a) provide as follows:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and
revocations — Grounds.

(a) In general. Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;
(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or

controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the
Criminal Law Article[.]
ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

Disciplinary Panel B of the Board bases its charges on the following facts that it

has reason to believe are true:

1.

The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
November 18, 2014. She retained licensure until February 24, 2017. (See
paragraph 8, below).

The Respondent is board-certified in family medicine.

Prior Disciplinary History

In or around September 2015, the Respondent began employment at a group
medical practice (“Practice A”) in Baltimore, Maryland.

On or about January 11, 2017, Practice A’s Medical Director reported to the
Board multiple instances of the Respondent's erratic behavior that adversely
affected patient care and was disruptive to the operation of the practice.

On January 20, 2017, Practice A relieved the Respondent of all duties.

The Respondent's duties were relieved based on observations of her erratic,
unprofessional and behaviorally disruptive conduct toward patients, including
pediatric patients, and staff.”

Panel B voted to summarily suspend the Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Maryland concluding that the public health, safety or welfare

imperatively requires emergency action.

' The statements of the Respondent's conduct herein are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the alleged charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
this matter.

2 To maintain confidentiality, specific instances of behavior will not be referenced in this document. The
Respondent has been notified by Practice A of its concerns. The Respondent may obtain from the
Administrative Prosecutor documents related to these instances.

2
10.

11.

12.

Effective February 24, 2017, prior to the issuance of an Order of Summary
Suspension, the Respondent agreed to enter into a Consent Order with the
Board. Under the terms of the Consent Order, the Respondent agreed to the
suspension of her license. The Respondent was ordered to enroll in the
Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP”) and to comply fully with
MPRP'’s referrals, rules, and requirements.

Bases for Disciplinary Charges

In furtherance of the Board’s investigation of the complaint regarding the
Respondent's conduct at Practice A, the Board subpoenaed records from various
sources. In addition, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath on two
separate occasions.

During the interviews, the Respondent admitted that she has used an illicit
substance. The Respondent's statements in the interviews varied regarding the
starting date of her usage as well as the location and frequency of her usage of
the illicit substance. The Respondent's statements regarding her illicit substance
abuse also varied in the material the Board obtained.*

A drug screening conducted in February 2017 revealed that the Respondent's
pattern of usage of the illicit substance was significant.

The Respondent's conduct, in whole or in part, constitutes a violation of the
following grounds of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404(a): is guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health.Occ. §

14-404(a)(3)(ii); is professionally, physically or mentally incompetents, in violation

3 Specifics of the Respondent's statements are confidential. The Respondent is aware of the content of
those statements.

3
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4) and habitual abuses a controlled dangerous

substance, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(8).

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS
lf, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds
for action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)}(3)(ii), (4) and/or (8), it may impose disciplinary
sanctions against the Respondent's license in accordance with the Board's regulations
under Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.09 and 10.32.02.10, including revocation, suspension,
or reprimand, and may place the Respondent on probation, and/or may impose a

monetary fine.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION
CONFERENCE, PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

A conference before Panel B, sitting as the Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR’) in this matter, is scheduled for Wednesday, May 24, 2017, at
9:00 a.m., at the Board’s office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215.
The Respondent must confirm in writing his intention to attend the DCCR. The
Respondent should send written confirmation of his intention to participate in the DCCR
to: Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201
Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the
DCCR is described in the attached letter to the Respondent.

If the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a pre-hearing conference and a
hearing in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101

Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in
accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov't

§§ 10-201 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.).

(mele So, au!
Date

BRIAN E. FROSH
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MARYLAND

  

A oo (.

Victoria H. Pepgér, Assistant Attorney General

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation
Division

Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Suite 201:

Baltimore, Maryland 21201

  

    
