IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

FRANKLIN C. NWOKE, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D82569 * Case Number: 2218-0222B

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL ORDER OF REVOCATION OF MEDICAL LICENSE

On December 26, 2018 Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board’) notified FRANKLIN CHUKWUDI NWOKE, M.D.
(the “Respondent”), License Number D82569, of its INTENT TO REVOKE the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Notice informed
the Respondent that unless the Respondent requested a hearing in writing within 30 days
of the date of mailing of the Notice, Panel B intended to sign this Final Order, which was
enclosed. More than 30 days have elapsed, and the Respondent failed to request a hearing.
Therefore, Panel B hereby revokes the Respondent’s license to practice medicine.

The basis for Panel B’s action was pursuant to the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act’”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-401 et seq. (2014 Repl.
Vol. and 2017 Supp.), and COMAR 10.32.02.14(A).

The pertinent provisions of the Act provide:

Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions,
and revocations —Grounds.

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(1) Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to obtain a
license for the applicant or licensee or for another;

(2) — Is guilty of:

(11) — Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the
Board or a disciplinary panel;

(36) Willfully makes a false representation when seeking or making
application for licensure or any other application related to the
practice of medicine;

(42) Fails to submit to a criminal history records check under § 14—
308.1 of this title[.]

Health Occ. § 14-308.1. Criminal history records check through Central
Repository.

(a)

(b)

(c)

In this section, “Central Repository” means the Criminal Justice
Information System Central Repository of the Department of Public
Safety and Correctional Services.

An applicant, a licensee, or a certificate holder shall apply to the
Central Repository for a State and national criminal history records
check,

As part of the application required under subsection (b) of this section,
an individual shall submit to the Central Repository:

(1) Two complete sets of legible fingerprints taken on
forms approved by the Director of the Central
Repository and the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation;

(2) The fee authorized under § 10-221(b)(7) of the Criminal
Procedure Article for access to State criminal history
records; and

(3) The mandatory processing fee required by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal history
records check.

The pertinent provisions of the Board’s regulations under COMAR 10.32.02

provide:

14 Proposed Orders; ...

A. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the issuance of a charging document
with a proposed order which will go into effect if the respondent fails
to request a hearing.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Panel A finds the following:

1. Atall times relevant, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed on
November 2, 2016, under license number D82569. The Respondent’s license
is presently active and is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2019.

2. On or about August 14, 2017, the Respondent submitted an online
application (the “application”) for license renewal using the Board’s online
license renewal process.

3. When a licensee applies online to renew their license, a notice appears that

informs the licensee that the Board may not renew a license if it has not
 

received the licensee’s Criminal History Record Check (“CHRC”)
information. This requires the licensee’s submission of their fingerprints to
Criminal Justice Information Services (“CJIS”) before attempting to
complete the renewal application.

4. The Respondent then continued with the application by clicking the button
which reads “Yes, I acknowledge that I have submitted my fingerprints to
CJIS BEFORE attempting to complete my renewal application.” This dialog
box provides that if the applicant has not already submitted their fingerprints,
they should exit the application process until this requirement is satisfied.

5. The Respondent did not exit the application, but instead continued and
completed it indicating that he had submitted his fingerprints for CHRC. The
application was electronically signed by the Respondent and dated August
14, 2017. The Respondent’s signed application states, “Failure to submit to
a criminal history record check may result in disciplinary action.”

6. On or about January 16, 2018, the Board sent a letter to the Respondent
indicating that it had not received a response to previous communications!,
and that a preliminary investigation had been opened based upon the
Respondents failure to obtain a CHRC. The Respondent did not respond.

7. The Board’s investigation determined that the Respondent failed to submit

fingerprints to CJIS in compliance with the CHRC process, as set forth in

‘In addition to a letter sent via USPS, the Board attempts to make email contact with all licensees for whom the
Board has not received CHRC results.
Health Occ. § 14-308.1, and misrepresented to the Board in the application
that the Respondent had met these requirements.

8. The Respondent’s actions including failure to complete the CHRC, as
outlined in pertinent part above constitute, in whole or in part, a violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(42), failing to submit to a criminal records history
check under § 14-308.1 of this title.

9, The Respondent’s misrepresentation to the Board on the application that the
Respondent completed the CHRC, and failure to cooperate with the Board’s
investigation, as outlined in pertinent part above, constitute, in whole or in
part, a violation of one or more of the following provisions of the Act: Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(1), Fraudulently or deceptively obtaining or attempting to
obtain a license for the applicant, licensee, or for another; Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii), Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine; Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33), Fails to cooperate with a lawful
investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel; and Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(36), Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the

practice of medicine.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that

the Respondent violated Health Occ. §§ 14-404(a) (1), (311), (33), (36) and (42).
ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the license of FRANKLIN CHUKWUDI NWOKE, M.D., is
REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent may apply for reinstatement of the Respondent’s
license to practice medicine after a minimum of one (1) year from the date of this Order;
and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.

Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 & 2017 Supp.).

05/04/2014 oiatine J
Date Chou Farrelly, Exe

Maryland State Board of P.

 

  
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

Pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-408, the Respondent has the right to seek judicial
review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover
letter accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed.
Any petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative
Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the
Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If the Respondent files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should
be served with the court’s process at the following address:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:

Noreen M. Rubin, Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
