IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

LAURA E, PURDY, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D86195 * Case Number: 2223-0134B

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

The Maryland Board of Physicians (the “Maryland Board”) received information
that Laura E. Purdy, M.D., (the “Respondent’”) License Number D86195, was disciplined
by the Mississippi State Board of Medical Licensure (the “Mississippi Board”). Ina
Corrected Determination and Order dated May 18, 2023, the Mississippi Board
disciplined the Respondent by stayed suspension for three (3) months subject to certain
conditions.

Based on the above referenced Mississippi Board sanction, the Maryland Board
has grounds to charge the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), under H. O. § 14-404(a):

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(21) Is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary
authority or convicted or disciplined by a court of
any state or country or disciplined by any branch of
the United States uniformed services or the

Veteran’s Administration for an act that would be
grounds for disciplinary action under this section,
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) has determined that the acts for which the
Respondent was disciplined in Mississippi would be grounds for disciplinary action
under H.O. § 14-404(a). The grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-404(a) are
as follows:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer

review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care in an

outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this
State.

(43) | Except for the licensure process described under Subtitle 3A of this title,
violates any provision of this title, any rule or regulation adopted by the
Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the practice of medicine;
According to Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.05.05
(A). A telehealth practitioner shall perform a synchronous, audio-visual
evaluation adequate to establish diagnoses and identify underlying conditions or
contraindications to recommended treatment options before providing treatment or
prescribing medication.
According to COMAR § 10.32.05.06
(B). A Telehealth practitioner may not treat a patient or prescribe medication
based solely on an online questionnaire.
Based on the action taken by the Mississippi Board, the Respondent agrees to

enter into this Consent Order with Panel B, consisting of Procedural Background,

Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B makes the following findings of fact:

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed in
Maryland on or about September 13, 2018.

2. The Mississippi Board found in its investigation that the Respondent was
prescribing medications to at least 3 patients in Mississippi. The investigation also found
that all patient encounters were conducted via text messaging through a phone application
and website called “Push Health.”

3. The Respondent testified that she only reviewed questionnaires completed
by patients when they registered for “Push Health” prior to prescribing medications.
Other than the text messages, the Respondent testified that she does not ask any questions
or engage in any relevant communication with patients to establish the physician/ patient
relationship needed to practice telemedicine in the state of Mississippi.

4. By Order dated May 18, 2023, the Mississippi Board disciplined the
Respondent by stayed suspension for three (3) months subject to certain conditions.

A copy of the Mississippi Board Order is attached hereto.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law

that the Respondent is subject to discipline under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21) for the

disciplinary action taken by the Mississippi Board against the Respondent for an act or
acts that would be grounds for disciplinary action under Health Occ. §14-404(a)(3)(ii),
(22), and (43) as well as COMAR § 10.32.05.05, and COMAR § 10.32.05.06.
ORDER

It is, thus, by Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland be and is hereby SUSPENDED for three (3) months with the suspension
IMMEDIATELY STAYED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the terms and conditions of
the May 18, 2023 Mississippi Board Corrected Determination and Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel
which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the
Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a
disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a

disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed
by this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend Respondent’s
license with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. §4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File
0 4/0G/Z02

Date Christine A. Farrelly‘ )
Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

 

CONSENT

I, Laura E. Purdy, MD, acknowledge that I am aware of my right to consult with
and be represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order. I have chosen to
proceed without counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel
is freely and voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right
to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and
to all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those
procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the

Junisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce
this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms.
Signature On File

g;

Date “Taur E. Purdy, MD
Respondent

NOTARY
STATE OF_7enngess€

CITY/COUNTY OF_ fVlontgomiery

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this / day of Auguct . 2023, before
me, a Notary Public of the State and City/County aforesaid, personally Laura E. Purdy.
MD, and made oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order was her
voluntary act and deed.

AVENE Php,

AS WITNESS my hand and notarial seal. ey on
2 >" staTE “9%

Jenna Elizabeth Tote i for 3 3

Notary Public = : TENNESSEE $ 3
= fe NOTARY a =
33% s =

My Commission expires: Apu 25th, 2027 Wiicon83 =
“wlene oe

rT
