IN THE MATTER OF . * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

MICHAEL ARATA, M.D. — * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D86283 * Case Number: 2219-0211

* * k * * * * * * * k * * * * * * * * x *

CONSENT ORDER

BACKGROUND

 

The Maryland Board of Physicians (the “Maryland Board”) received information
that Michael Arata, M.D., (the “Respondent”), License Number D86283, was disciplined
by the Medical Board of California (the “California Board”) in a Decision and Order
adopted on June 12, 2019 and effective July 12, 2019.

Based on the above referenced California Board sanction, the Maryland Board has
grounds to charge the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), under H. O. § 14-404(a):

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum

of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any

licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(21) _ Is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary
authority or convicted or disciplined by a court of
any state or country or disciplined by any branch of
the United States uniformed services or the
Veteran’s Administration for an act that would be
grounds for disciplinary action under this section,
The Maryland Board has determined that the acts for which the Respondent was

disciplined in California would be grounds for disciplinary action under H.O, § 14-

404(a). The grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-404(a) are as follows:
(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(19)  Grossly overutilizes health care services;

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer
review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in
an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this

State;

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer
review;

Based on the action taken by the California Board, the Respondent agrees to enter
into this Consent Order with the Maryland Board of Physicians, consisting of Procedural
Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order of reciprocal action.

"|, FINDINGS OF FACT

 

The Board finds the following:

L. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed in
Maryland on or about October 2, 2018.

2. By Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order made effective on J uly
12, 2019, the California Board disciplined the Respondent. According to the Disciplinary
Order, the Respondent agreed that the California Board could establish a prima facie case
with respect to the charges and allegations in Accusation No. 800-2015-014936, and that
he thereby subjected his license to disciplinary action.

3. According to the California Board Accusation, on or about January 13,
2015, the Respondent performed a “risky and disproven” invasive procedure on Patient

A. The California Board further found that the Respondent failed to obtain and/or
 

 

Order shall be of no force or effect, except for this paragraph, it shall be inadmissible in any legal
action between the parties, and the Board shall not be disqualified from further action by having
considered this, matter, .

13. The parties agtee that this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order shall be

“null and void and not binding upon the parties unless approved and adopted by the Board, except

for'this paragraph, which shall remain in full force and effect. Respondent fully understands and
agrees that in deciding whether or not to approve and adopt this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order, the Board may receive oral and written communications from its staff and/or
the Attorney General’s Office. Communications pursuant to. this petagraph shall not disqualify
the Board, any member thereof, and/or any other person from future participation in this or any
other matter affecting or involving respondent. In the event that the Board dogs not, in its
discretion, approve and adopt this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, with the
exception of this paragraph, it shall not become effective, shall be of no evidentiary value
whatsoever, and shall not be relied upon or introduced in any disciplinary action by either party:
hereto, Respondent further agrees that should this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order
be rejected for any reason by the Board, respondent will assert no claim that the Board, or any
member thereof, was prejudiced by its/his/her review, discussion and/or consideration of this
Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order or of any matter or matters related hereto,

ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
14. This Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is intended by the parties herein to

be an integrated writing representing the complete, final and exclusive embodiment of the :

agreements of the parties in the above-entitled matter.

15; The parties agree that copies of this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order,
inéluding copies of the signatures of the parties, my be used in lieu of original documents and
signatures and, further, that such copies shall have the same-force and effect as originals.

16. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree the
Board may, without further notice to or opportunity to be heard by Respondent, issue and enter
the following Disciplinary Order: |

4
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
so oo ~ nN wm > w NN. =

No No N nN nN NY WN ie} Ny _ — — = — ee _ —~
co ~ an wn > w No _ o =) oo ~ an Ww > w N “OD

 

 

DISCIPLINARY ORDER
ITIS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certifi cate No. A70967

 

issued to Respondent Michael Andrew Arata, M.D. is revoked, However, the revocation is stayed|
and Respondent is placed on probation for five (5) years on the following terms and conditions,

t, EDUCATION COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this .
Decision, and on an annual basis thereafter, Respondent shall submit to the Board or its designee
for its prior approval educational program(s) or course(s) which shall not be less than 40 hours .
per year, for each year of probation. The educational program(s) or course(s) shall be aimed at
correcting any areas of deficient practice or knowledge and shall be Category I certified. The
educational program(s) or course(s) shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to
the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure. Following the
completion of each course, the Board or its designee may administer an examination to test
Respondent’ s knowledge of-the course, Respondent shall provide proof of attendance for 50
hours of CME of which 25 hours were in satisfaction of this condition.

2. MEDICAL RECORD KEEPING COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the

 

effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in medical record keeping
approved in advance by the Board or its designee, Respondent shal! provide the approved course
provider with any information and documents that the approved course provider may deem
pettinent. Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of

the course not later than six (6) months after Respondents initial enrollment. Respondent shall ;

successfully complete any other component of the course within one qd) year of enrollment. The

medical record keeping course shal] be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the
Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

A medical record keeping course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfiliment of this condition if the course would have
been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

. 5
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936) ;

 

 
 

 

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later than
15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

3. PROFESSIONALISM PROGRAM (ETHICS COURSE). Within 60 calendar
days of the effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a professionalism program,
that meets the requirements of Title 16, California Code of Regulations (CCR) section 1358.1.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete that program, Resporident shall
provide any information and documents that the program may deem pertinent. Respondent shall
successfully complete the classroom component of the program not later than six (6) months after
Respondent’s initial enrollment, and the longitudinal component of the program not later than the
time specified by the program, but no later than one (1) year after attending the classroom
component. The professionalism program shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in —
addition to the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

A professionalism program taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the program would have .
been approved by the Board or its designee had the program been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the program or not later
than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later,

- 4. SOLO PRACTICE PROHIBITION, Respondent is prohibited from engaging in

 

the solo practice of medicine. Prohibited solo practice includes, but is not limited to, a practice

where: 1) Respondent merely shares office space with another physician but is not affiliated for
purposes of providing patient care, or 2) Respondent is the sole physician practitioner at that —
location.

If Respondent fails to establish a practice with another physician or secure employment in
an appropriate practice setting within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, -

6
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
 

 

Respondent shall receive a notification from the Board or its designee to cease the practice of
medicine within. three (3).calendar days after being so notified, The Respondent shall not resume
practice until an appropriate practice setting is established.

If, during the course of the probation, the Respondent’s practice setting changes and

the Respondent is no longer practicing in a setting iri compliance with this Decision, the

| Respondent shall notify the Board or its designee within five (5) calendar days of the practice

setting change. If Respondent fails to establish a practice with another physician or sécure ~
employment in an appropriate practice setting within 60 calendar days of the practice setting
change, Respondent shall receive a notification from the Board or its designee to cease the
practice of medicine within three (3).calendar days after being so notified. The Respondent shal!
not resume practice until an appropriate practice setting is established.

5. NOTIFICATION, Within sever (7) days of the effective date of this Decision, the

 

Respondent shall provide a true copy of this Decision and Accusation to the Chief of Staff or the
Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to

Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent engages in the practice of medicine,

‘inoluding all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief

Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to

Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Board ot its designee within 15

calendar days. This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or

insurance carrier, :

6. SUPERVISION OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS AND ADVANCED
PRACTICE NURSES. During probation, Respondent is prohibited from supervising physician
assistants and advanced practice nurses, a .

7. OBEY ALL LAWS. Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local Jaws, all rules
governing the practice of medicine in California and remain in full compliance with any court
ordered criminal probation, payments, and other orders. This shall include Respondent obeying
the FDA’s revocation of his eligibility to conduct clinical trials or investigations for products
regulated by the FDA, that was revoked by the FDA through their Denial of Hearing and -

7 . .
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-20!5-014936)

 
 

 

Disqualification Letter of May 21, 2018. Respondent further agrees that he will not seek
reinstatement from or with the FDA, pursuant to 21 C.F.R. section 812,119, subdivision (f), or
any other applicable authority, to have his eligibility reinstated to conduct clinical trials or
investigations for products regulated by the FDA.

8. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS. Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations
under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Board, stating whether there has been
compliance with all the conditions of probation. Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations
not later than 10 calendar days after the end of the preceding quarter,

9, ° GENERAL PROBATION REQUIREMENTS,
Compliance with Probation Unit: Respondent shall comply with the Board’s probation

‘unit,

Address Cha nges: Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Board informed of

Respondents business and residence addresses, email address (if available), and telephone

_humber. Changes of such addresses shal! be immediately communicated in writing to the Board

or its designee.’ Under no circumstances shall a post office box serve as an address of record;
except as allowed by Business and Professions Code section 2021 (b),

Place of Practice: Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s |
or patient’s place of residence, unless the patient resides in a skilled nursing facility or other |
similar licensed facility,

{isease Renewal: Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California ey s

} and surgeon’s license.

Travel or Residence Outside California: Respondent shall immediately inform the Board

 

or its designee, in writing, of travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts,
or is contemplated to last, more than thirty (30) calendar days. In the event Respondent should — |.
leave the State of California to reside or to practice, Respondent shall notify the Board or its”
designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of departure and return.
10. INTERVIEW WITH THE BOARD ORITS DESIGNEE. Respondent shall be
available in person upon request for interviews either at Respondent’s place of business or at the
. 7 . ;
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 

 
PR Wood

 

 

probation ‘unit office, with or without prior notice throughout-the ternt of probation,

11, NON-PRACTICE WHILE ON PROBATION, Respondent shall notify the Board

 

or its designee tn writing within 15 calendar days of any periods of non-practice lasting more than
30 calendar days and within 15 calendar days of Respondent’s return to practice. Non-practice is
defined as any period of time Respondent is not practicing medivine as defined in Business and
Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052 for at Jeast 40 hours in a calendar month in direct
patient care, clinical activity or teaching, or other activity as approved by the Board, If
Respondent resides in California and is considered to be in nor-practice, Respondeitt shall
comply with all terms and conditions of probation. All time spent in an intensive training
program which has been’ approved by the Board or its designee shall not be considered non- -
practice and does not relieve Respondent from complying with all the terms and conditions of
probation. Practicing medicine in another state of the United States or Federal jurisdiction while
on probation with the medical licensing authority of that state or jurisdiction shall not be
considered non-practice. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be considered as a -
period of non-practice, /

Tn the event Respondent's period of non-practice' while on probation exceeds 18 calendar /
months, Respondent shall successfully complete the Federation of State Medical Boards’ Special
Purpose Examination, or, at the Board’s discretion, a clinical competence assessment program
that meets the criteria of Condition 18 of the current version of the Board’s “Manual of Mode!
Disciplinary Orders and Disciplinary Guidelines” prior to resuming the practice of medicine.

Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation shall not exceed two (2) years.
Periods of non-practice will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term,

~ Periods of non-practice for a Respondent residing outside of California will relieve
Respondent of the responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the
exception of this condition and the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws;
General Probation Requirements; and Quarterly Declarations,

Wi . .
HTH,

9 . .
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
oN KN NWN FF WD NY

_
o wo

 

 

12, COMPLETION OF PROBATION, Respondent shall comply with a 1 financial

 

obligations (e. B. restitution, probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the
completion of probation, Upon successful completion of probation, Respondent’s certificate shall
be fully restored.

13. VIOLATION OF PROBATION. Failure to fully comply with any term or

 

condition of probation is a violation of probation, If Respondent violates probation in any
respect, the Board, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke
probation and carty out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, or Petition to °
Revoke Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation,
the Board shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation -
shall be extended until the matter is final. .

14, LICENSE SURRENDER. Following the effective date of this Decisios, if

 

Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement or health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may request to surrender his or her license,
The Board reserves the right to evaluate Respondent’s request and to exercise its discretion in”

determining whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed appropriate

-and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender, Respondent

shall within 15. calendar days deliver Respondent’s wallet and wall certificate to the Board or its
designee and Respondent shail no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject
to the terms and conditions of probation, If Respondent re-applies for a medical license, the
application shalt be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

PROBATION MONITORING COSTS, Respondent shall pay the costs associated with
probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the Board, which may be
adjusted on an annual basis. ‘Such costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of California and
delivered to the Board or its designee no later than January 31 -of each calendar year.

Hit
(111
‘tll

. 10
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 

 
27
28

ow ony WD vA FP WY NWN

 

 

ACCEPTANCE /

I have carefillly read the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and have fully
‘discussed it with my attorney, Raymond J, McMahon, Esq. | understand the stipulation and the
effect it will have on my Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate. I enter into this Stipulated
Settlement and Disciplinary Order voluntarily, knowingly, and intelli gently, and agree to be

bound by the Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California.

DATED: _ [24[19

I have read and fully discussed with Respondent Michael Andrew Arata, M.D. the terms

 
     

CHAEL ANDREW ARA

1 TA, M.D.
Respondent ~

and conditions and other matters contained in the above Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary

Order. 1 approve its form and content. YD
DATED: Lh pris p, 24 20/9 , ;
YYMOND J, AHON, ESQ

_ Attorney for Respondent

  

     

ENDORSEMENT.
The foregoing Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby respectfully

submitted for consideration by the Medical Board of California.

Dated: & (24 Lol 4 . Respectfully submitted,

XAVIER BECERRA — -

Attorney General of California
MATTHEW M. DAVIS

Supervising Deputy Attomey General

MARTIN W. HAGAN

Deputy Attomey General
Attorneys for Complainant.

$D2018700800
71805809.docx

 
Exhibit A

. Accusation No. 800-2015-014936
N

oO OND Dn AH BP W

FILED

. XAVIER BECERRA . i STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Attorney General of California MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
MATTHEW M. DAVIS SACRAMENTO lung 28 20/35

Supervising Deputy Attomey General KV TPG AN ALYST
MarTIN W. HAGAN
Deputy Attorney General
State Bar No. 155553 -
600 West Broadway, Suite 1800
San Diego, CA 92101
P.O. Box 85266
San Diego, CA 92186-5266
Telephone: (619) 738-9405
Facsimile: (619) 645-2061

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

 

 

     
    
     

Case No. 800-2015-014936
ACCUSATION

In the Matter of the Accusation Against:
Michael Andrew Arata, M.D.

4501 Birch Street :

Newport Beach, CA 92660

Physician’s and Surgeon’s s Certificate
No. A 70967,

Respondent.

Complainant alleges:

PARTIES
1. | Kimberly Kirchmeyer (Complainant) brings this Accusation solely in her official
| capacity as the Executive Director of the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer
Affairs (Board). ,

2. Onor about March 3, 2000, the Medical Board issued Physician’s and Surgeon’s
Certificate Number A 70967 to Michael Andrew Arata, MD. (Respondent). The Physictan’s and
Surgeon’s Certificate was in full force and effect at all times relevant to the charges brought
herein and will expire on September 30, 2019, unless renewed.

ffl

 

 

: |

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
document a comprehensive history or examination.on Patient A. The California Board
also found that the Respondent performed excessive and unnecessary laboratory testing
on Patient A including a Salivary Cortisol Test, Heart Rate Deep Breathing (HRDB)
Test, HRDB Analysis, HRDB (R-R) Analysism Valsalva Maneuver Test and Sweat
Response Test. In addition, the Respondent treated Patient A without performing
appropriate testing to rule out other possible etiologies of her symptoms including sleep
evaluation, testing for abdominal discomfort, blood tests for thyroid, nutrient evaluation
and heavy metal testing, cardiac imaging, evaluation of upper gastrointestinal system,
evaluation of cortisol levels and possible biofeedback. The California Board further
found that the Respondent had billing irregularities in regard to his office visits and the
procedure he performed on Patient A and that the Respondent failed to maintain adequate
and accurate records in his care and treatment of Patient A. A copy of the California
Board Decision, Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order and Accusation is attached,
hereto.
1], CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Maryland Board concludes as a
matter of law that the disciplinary action taken by the California Board against the
Respondent was for an act or acts that would be grounds for disciplinary action under
Health Occ. §14-404(a)(3) (ii), (19), (22) and (40) had those offenses been committed in
this state.

I. ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is hereby:
Oo fea IN DH WW FF

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20

21
2.

23
24
25
26
27
28

 

JURISDICTION

 

3. This Accusation is brought before the Board, under the authority of the following
laws. All section references are to the Business and Professions Code unless otherwise indicated.
4. Section 2227 of the Code provides that a licensee who is found guilty under the
Medical Practice Act may have his or her license revoked, suspended for a period not to exceed
one year, placed on probation and required to pay the costs of probation monitoring, or such other
action taken in relation to discipline as the Board deems proper.
5. Section 2234 of the Code states:
“The board shall take action against any licensee who is charged with
unprofessional conduct. In addition to other provisions of this article,
unprofessional conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:
“(a) Violating or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, assisting in or
abetting the violation of, or conspiring to violate any provision of this
chapter.
“(b) Gross negligence. '
“(c) Repeated negligent acts. To be repeated, there must be two or more
negligent acts or omissions. An initial negligent act or omission followed by
a separate and distinct departure from the applicable standard of care shall
constitute repeated negligent acts.
“(1) An initial negligent diagnosis followed by an act or omission
medically appropriate for that negligent diagnosis of the patient shall
constitute a single negligent act.
(2) When the standard of care requires a change in the diagnosis,
act, or omission that constitutes the negligent act described in paragraph (1),
including, but not limited to, a reevaluation of the diagnosis or a change in
treatment, and the licensee’s conduct departs from the applicable standard of
care, each departure constitutes a separate and distinct breach of the standard

of care.

2

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
NY Dn vA FP YH WN

 

“(e) The commission of any act involving dishonesty or corruption which
is substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a physician
and surgeon,

“(f) Any action or conduct which would have warranted the denial of a
certificate.

6. Section 2266 of the Code states:

“The failure of a physician and surgeon to maintain adequate and accurate
records relating to the provision of services to their patients constitutes
unprofessional conduct.”

7. Unprofessional conduct under California Business and Professions Code section 2234 |:
is conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of the medical profession, or conduct which is
unbecoming to a member in good standing of the medical profession, and which demonstrates an
unfitness to practice medicine. (Shea v. Board of Medical Examiners (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 564,
575.)

FIRST CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

 

(Gross Negligence)

8.' Respondent is subject to disciplinary action under sections 2227 and 2234, as defined
by section 2234, subdivision (b), in that he committed gross negligence in his care and treatment
of patient A,! as more particularly alleged hereinafter: .

9. Onor about 2011 , Respondent, an interventional radiologist, established Synergy
Health Concepts, to research, promote and perform, venous balloon angioplasty in order to treat
“autonomic dysfunction” for autonomic disorders allegedly associated with, but not limited to,
multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, traumatic brain injury, and chronic Lyme disease. One of

the procedures utilized by Respondent was venous balloon angioplasty to treat chronic

1 Patient A is being used in place of the patient’s name or initials to maintain patient
confidentiality.

3

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
UM BR WwW YO =

Oo wo ND

 

cerebrospinal venous insufficiency (CCSVI), described as a “narrowing (stenosis) of specific
veins in the neck and chest,” the internal jugular and azygos veins. .

10. On or about May 10, 2012, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
issued a safety communication entitled “Chronic Cerebrospinal Venous Insufficiency {[(CCSV]]
Treatment in Multiple Sclerosis Patient: FDA Safety Communication” (hereinafter “FDA Safety
Communication”), In the FDA Safety Communication, CCSVI was described as using “balloon
angioplasty devices or stents to widen the narrowed internal jugular or azygos veins” ina
“procedure [that] is sometimes called ‘liberation therapy’ or the ‘liberation procedure.’” The
FDA warned, “[a]t this time, the FDA believes there is no reliable evidence from controlled
studies that this procedure is effective in treating MS (multiple sclerosis)” and “the criteria used to
diagnose CCSVI have not been adequately established.” The FDA further warned “that using
these medical devices in CCSVI treatment procedures posed a risk to patients for a variety of
reasons” and that “[t]his communication [the’ Safety Communication] is also intended to notify
physicians and clinical investigators planning on conducting clinical trials using medical devices
to treat CCSVI that they must comply with FDA regulations for investigational devices.” .

11. On or about September 5, 2012, the FDA sent a “Warning Letter” to Respondent, who
was identified as the President and Principal Investigator for Synergy Health Concepts, Inc.
Respondent is a board certified diagnostic radiologist who completed a fellowship in
interventional radiology. “He admittedly does not have the training to “treat MS per se” but claims
he can treat symptoms which are “autonomic in nature.” The Warning Letter advised Respondent

of objectionable conditions observed during the [FDA’s] inspection conducted at Synergy Health

2 These reasons included, but were not limited to, because: (1) “There is no clear
diagnostic evidence that CCSVI exists as a distinct clinical disorder or is linked to MS,” (2)
“Venous stenoses seen on imaging tests may be normal variants that do not cause any symptoms
or disease, since they are sometimes seen in healthy people,” (3) “The safety and effectiveness of
using balloon angioplasty devices or stents in the internal jugular or azygos veins has not been
established in any clinical condition; nor has the FDA approved the use of these devices in these
veins,” (4) “There is no clear scientific evidence that the treatment of internal jugular or azygos
venous stenosis is safe in MS patients, impacts the symptoms of MS, changes the overall course
of MS or improves the quality of life for MS patients,” and (5) “It is possible that stent placement
can worsen any venous narrowing. This is because further narrowing has been shown to
sometimes occur with stents placed in normal veins, due to the body’s response to the implant.”

4

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 

 
oO eo nN Hn NH

11
12
13
14
15
16

18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

 

 

Concepts, Inc. (Synergy Health) from April 10, 2012, to May 15, 2012, by an investigator from
the FDA Los Angeles District Office.” According to the Warning Letter, “[t}he inspection was
conducted ... to ensure that data and information contained in requests for Investigational Device
Exemption (IDE), Premarket Approval (PMA) applications, and Premarket Notification
Submissions [were] scientifically valid and accurate” and also “to ensure that human subjects are
protected from undue hazard or risk during the course of scientific investigations.” The
“objectionable” conditions related to “Synergy Health in its role as a sponsor” and Respondent
“{a]s a clinical investigator.” In regard to “Synergy Health in its role as a sponsor,” the FDA
warned of the following objectionable conditions: (1) “Failure to submit an Application to the
FDA and obtain IRB (Investigational Review Board) and FDA approval prior to allowing subjects
to participate in the investigation...” and (2) “Failure to maintain accurate, complete, and current
device shipment records ...” In regard to being a clinical investigator, the FDA warned of the
following objectionable conditions: (1) “Failure to ensure that informed consent was obtained in
accordance with [federal regulations]” and (2) “Failure to maintain accurate, complete, and
current records related to your participation in the investigation.. 3

12. Onor about late 2014, patient A, a then-71-year old female, who had been diagnosed
with MS in 2011, discovered Respondent after doing online research concerning possible
treatments for MS symptoms. Believing that Respondent’s treatment could potentially provide
relief for her MS symptoms, she sent an email to his office and was contacted shortly thereafter by
a nurse that worked for Respondent. The nurse did an initial patient intake interview over the
phone in which patient A was asked a series of questions about her MS and related symptoms. In
response to the questions, patient A advised the nurse she was diagnosed with MS in 2011 and
reported that in the past year she had suffered severe symptoms with chronic fatigue and tiredness,
chest tightness (more severe at night), cold intolerance, bowel disturbances, and cramping in her

right leg. When asked, patient A also identified other symptoms classified as mild to moderate.

3 The Warning Letter noted, “[t]he violations described above are not intended to be an all
inclusive list of problems that may exist with your firm and your clinical study. It is your firm’s
responsibility as a study sponsor; and you, as a clinical investigator, to ensure compliance with the
Act and applicable regulations.”

5

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
CoN DAD A BRB BW YY

wb ow ee

nr:
oo

 

This information was documented on a “TVAM [Transvascular Autonomic Modulation] Intake”
form. After discussing her current symptoms, patient A was advised her symptoms were most
likely the result of “venous compression” and “autonomic dysfunction” which Respondent could |
treat with a procedure that would cost thirteen thousand dollars. The nurse claimed the costs
would be covered by Medicare and her secondary insurance, Anthem Blue Cross. Patient A
agreed to pay an initial deposit of one thousand dollars and an appointment was scheduled for
January 12, 2015, at Respondent's office in Newport Beach, California.

13. According to Respondent’s certified medical records, at some time before the
scheduled office visit with patient A, a lab order was placed for a comprehensive metabolic panel,
complete blood count, “PT/PTT/INR,” a “Salivary Cortisol Test,” and a “SIBO Breath test kit”
with directions to fax the lab results back to Respondent “Attention Clinical Coordinator.” The
Genova Diagnostics test kit for the salivary cortisol test was collected on January 7, 2015, and
completed on January 12, 2015. While the Genova Diagnostics SIBO breath test kit was sent to
patient A after her scheduled procedure was performed, patient A claims the results of the lab
tests “...were not shared with me the patient, and seemed to have no relevancy to the procedure.”

14. Onor about J anuary 12, 2015, patient A had a pre-procedure visit at Respondent’s
office. Patient A was asked to pay another $2,000, which she refused to do, and advised one of
Respondent’s staff that they could seek reimbursement through her insurance. During this brief
office visit, patient A’s vital signs were obtained and she also signed a number of forms, that were
not fully discussed with her, relating to the procedure to be performed the next day, which
allegedly would provide relief for her MS symptoms. Patient A was not adequately informed,
among other things, that the procedure to be performed was not generally accepted within the

medical community,’ she was not advised of the FDA Safety;Communication of May 10, 2012,

4 According to patient A, she was never advised there was disagreement in the medical
community about the TVAM procedure that was performed on January 13, 2015. An informed
consent of January 12, 2015, failed to mention there was disagreement in the medical community
concerning the procedure. Additionally, while there is a type-written procedure note dated
January 13, 2015, with a section entitled “INFORMED CONSENT,” which indicates patient A
was advised of “the incomplete agreement in the medical community of the benefits of the
procedure. .,” that is categorically denied by patient A who claims she was never advised of any
disagreement in the medical community regarding the procedure performed on her. .

6

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 

 
a wWooON

Ww

oO won DD

 

and she was unaware Respondent was being scrutinized by the FDA for his off-label use of
angioplasty balloon devices that FDA deemed “significant risk devices” under applicable federal
regulations. During this visit, there was,no detailed pre-procedure history obtained, no physical
examination performed by Respondent, and no cardiovascular or neurological assessment.
According to Respondent’s medical records, certain “Autonomic” tests were performed which
included a Heart Rate Deep Breathing (HRDB) Test, a HRDB Analysis, HRDB (R-R) Analysis,
Valsalva Maneuver Test and Sweat Response Test.

15. Onor about January 13, 2015, patient A arrived early at Respondent’s office where
she was prepped for her outpatient procedure which, according to the available medical records,
would be performed under conscious sedation. Once again, there was no indication of any
detailed history and/or physical examination.> According to the medical record for this visit,
patient A’s procedure diagnosis was “Venous compression, Autonomic Dysfunction” and the
procedures to be performed were listed as: “(1) Bilateral internal jugular vein, cerebral sinuses,
left renal, left iliac, azygos and subclavian venograms; (2) Ballooning of internal jugular vein: 12
mm left, 14 mm right; (3) Ballooning of the azygos vein: 6 mm; (4) Ballooning of the left renal
vein: 10 mm; (5) ballooning of the left iliac vein: 10 mm; [and] (6) Intravascular ultrasound
interrogation.” The alleged indication for the procedure was “[t]he patient has chronic venous
compression and dysautonomia.” Following the procedure, Respondent documented,
“INTERPRETATION: Successful bilateral jugular and sinus, azygos, SVC, IVC, left iliac, and
left renal venography [with] Venous compressive disease identified and successfully treated...”
Patient A was advised, at some point during this visit, that some patients have immediate

improvement in their symptoms, other patients take longer to see improvement, but all patients

. who had undergone the same procedure had improvement of their MS symptoms. After the ”

procedure, patient A was picked up by her daughter and returned to her hotel room.
Hifi

5 Respondent acknowledged in his interview before a Department of Consumer Affairs,
Health Quality Investigation Unit (““HQIU”) investigator that he failed to document a history and
physical examination. .

7

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
“oO

10
ul
12
13
14
15
16
17
18

- 20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

oN DH FS

 

16. Onor about January 14, 2015, patient A retumed.to Respondent's office for her post-

procedure visit. At this time, Respondent advised patient A.the procedure was “a success,” He

"identified the procedure as the TVAM procedure and indicated it was very similar to the CCSVI

procedure. Respondent provided patient A with a compact disc and a packet which contamed
information on stem cell therapy. Respondent then told patient A that many of his patients also _
opted to have stem cell therapy, in addition to the TVAM procedure, and the patients who did so
reported better outcomes.® Patient A was told that if she extended her stay one more day, she
could receive the stem cell treatment, and was quoted a price of ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
Patient A politely declined. Near the end of the visit, patient A was given directions to a
pharmacy that was fifteen to twenty minutes away, where she could obtain the medications
recommended by Respondent. When patient A arrived at the pharmacy, she received two to three
more calls from one of Respondent’s staff members, who attempted to persuade her to stay one
extra day for the stem cell therapy, with the staff member ultimately quoting a revised price of six
thousand dollars ($6,000). Once again, Patient A declined. :

17. According to Respondent, at some time after the procedure on J anuary 13, 2015,
patient A was contacted by a nurse who worked for Respondent advising her she would be ,
receiving an additional test kit from Genova Diagnostics. Patient A provided the sample for the .
test and returned the sample to Genova Diagnostics. According to the medical records, a
Bacterial Overgrowth of the Small Intestine Breath Test was collected on May 21, 2015, and
completed on May 28, 2015, Patient’A was never advised of the results of this test and never
received any additional follow up from Respondent or any of his staff.

18. Inor about June 2015, patient A received a billing statement from Respondent
requesting payment in the amount of $16,174.39. After doing some additional investigation,

patient A obtained documentation indicating that Respondent billed $113,821.08 to Medicare and

6 In his interview before an HQIU investigator, Respondent stated “the stem cells may
have been presented as one of the treatments that we provide, but that is not something that I
offer” and “I think that the stem cell applications, um, are interesting and they — they have
potential, but it’s not something I'd say, ‘I think this is going to help you.’ It’s — yeah, it could.”
Patient A disputes Respondent’s claim that he.did not encourage her to undergo stem cell therapy
after having the TVAM procedure.

 

 

 

8
MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936 1

 
nN

10
ll

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

oD ew N A WwW BR WwW

nearly $47,000 to her secondary insurance, Anthem Blue Cross, for services related to the .
procedure performed on January 13, 2015. Patient A contacted Respondent’s office to complain
and was told that the company that handled Respondent’s billing made errors in regard to the
charges submitted to Medicare and Anthem Blue Cross and steps had been taken, or were being
taken, to address the issue.

‘19. On or about September 13, 2016, the FDA sent Respondent a “Notice of Initiation of
Disqualification Proceedings and Opportunity to Explain (NIDPOE).” The NIDPOE stated,
among other things, “[bJased on our evaluation of information obtained by the Agency, we
believe that you, as a sponsor-investigator, have repeatedly or deliberately violated regulations
governing the proper conduct of clinical studies involving investigational products . ..” The
violations were listed as: “(1) You repeatedly failed to submit an application to the FDA and
obtain institutional review board (IRB) and FDA approval prior to allowing subjects to participate
in the investigation...; (2) You deliberately allowed subjects to participate in a study before
obtaining approval from the reviewing IRB prior to initiation of the study; (3) You deliberately
failed to ensure that IRB-approved informed consent was obtained from study subjects and
adheres to informed consent requirements...; (4) You deliberately represented a device as safe
and effective for the purpose of treating various diseases other than those for which FDA has
approved them. ..; and (5) You repeatedly failed to maintain accurate, and complete records of
receipt, use and disposition of devices....”

20. Onor about March 8, 2017, the FDA issued a safety communication entitled “FDA |
Concern over Experimental Procedures that Use Balloon Angioplasty Devices to Treat
Autonomic Dysfunction.” In this safety communication, the FDA stated its purpose of the safety

communication was:

“Purpose: To alert the audiences listed above {‘thealth care providers” and “people

considering treatment options for autonomic dysfunction”] about an experimental

procedure called Transvascular Autonomic Modulation (TVAM). This procedure

may put patients at risk because [it] is being promoted as a treatment for a variety of

conditions even though it has not been formally studied in clinical trials. The

procedure uses balloon angioplasty devices outside the scope of the FDA-approved
-indications for use. -

‘fil
9

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 

 
“This safety communication supplements a 2012 safety communication [with a link to
the FDA’s earlier safety communication of May 10, 2012] and warning letter [with a
link to the FDA’s warning letter to Respondent of September 5, 2010] addressing the
risk of serious injuries and death associated with similar experimental procedures,
using the same medical devices, to treat Chronic Cerebrospinal Venous Insufficiency
(CCSV)). :

“Summary of Problem and Scope: TVAM consists of threading a catheter into a
patient’s venous system, such as the jugular vein, where a balloon attached to the
catheter inflates to widen the vein walls. At least one physician, Dr. Michael Arata
claims the procedure treats the signs and symptoms of autonomic dysfunction in a
number of neurological disorders. The FDA has not reviewed any data that supports °
the safety and effectiveness of balloon angioplasty devices for this intended use.”
(Emphasis added.)

The FDA Safety Communication reported “[t]here is no clear scientific evidence to
support that the treatment of internal jugular venous stenosis: is safe in any patients, including
those with autonomic dysfunction; impacts the symptoms on autonomic dysfunction; changes the
overall course of health conditions derived from autonomic dysfunction; or approves the quality
of life for patients with autonomic dysfunction.” Additionally, the FDA wamed that “TVAM and
other similar experimental procedures have been associated with serious complications” by -
stating, in pertinent part:

“After the safety communication issued in May 2012, the FDA received at least one
medical device report of a balloon rupturing during placement in a patient’s jugular
vein. Physicians ultimately determined the balloon had migrated to the patient’s lung,
requiring surgery to remove the ruptured balloon. [{] “Other serious complications
reported to the FDA or discussed in medical journals include: at least one death,
blood clots in a vein in the brain (which may lead to stroke), cranial nerve damage,
and abdominal bleeding.”

Once again, all interested parties were warmed “[t]he FDA is aware of at least one
physician, Dr. Michael Arata, who has continued to conduct unauthorized clinical research using
these devices [and] [t]he expanded list of neurological disorders he claims to treat warrant an
update to the 2012 safety communication on the subject.”

21. Onor about June 21, 2017, the FDA hand delivered a Notice of Opportunity of
Hearing (NOOH) letter to Respondent, identified as the President of Synergy Health Concepts,
Inc. The NOOH letter advised Respondent of the numerous violations, as generally discussed

herein, and his repeated violations, some of which were previously identified when “...FDA

conducted an inspection from April 10 through May 15, 2012, which resulted in FDA issuing to

10

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO, 800-201 5-014936-

 
vA BF WwW NY

nN DS

[Respondent] a Warning Letter dated September 5, 2012.. 2? In general, the violations identified
in the NOOH letter concerned Respondent’s use of a balloon angioplasty technique and device
“the internal jugular veins, and azygos veins (vascular lesions) .. . which were not approved for
dilation of jugular, azygos, renal or iliac veins” with the FDA noting the technique and device had
not been properly approved for such use and “[a]s a result, you continued to place subjects at
increased risk of serious harm, despite having received the 2012 WL [Warning Letter].”
Moreover, the FDA found that Respondent, as a sponsor-investigator, had deliberately
represented in various publications that the use of the balloon angioplasty technique and device
was safe and effective “for the purpose of investigating various diseases other than those for
which the FDA has approved them” with citation to various publications. These representations
were made when there was no reliable evidence from controlled clinical trials to support such
claims. .

22. Onor about May 21, 2018, the FDA issued Respondent a Notice of Denial of Hearing |
and Disqualification Letter to Respondent. ,

23. Patient A has received no relief from her MS symptoms since the TVAM procedure
was performed on her by Respondent on or about January 13, 2015.

24. Respondent committed gross negligence in his care and treatment of patient A which
included, but was not limited to, the following: .

(a) Respondent performed a risky and disproven invasive procedure on

patient A on or about January 13, 2015.

 

SECOND CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
‘(Repeated Negligent Acts)

25. Respondent is further subject to disciplinary action under sections 2227 and 2234, as
defined by section 2234, subdivision (c), of the Code, in that he committed repeated negligent acts
in his care and treatment of patient A, as more particularly alleged herein:

26. Respondent committed repeated negligent acts in his care and treatment of patient A
which included, but was not limited to, the following: .

{Tit
11

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland be and is hereby revoked. However, the revocation is stayed and the
Respondent is placed on PROBATION for five (5) years, subjected to the following
terms and conditions:

a. The Respondent shall comply with the terms and conditions of the July 12, 2019
California Board Decision;

b. If the Respondent fails to comply with any term or condition of this Consent
Order, a Board panel, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, may take any action
prescribed under Section 14-404(a) of the Maryland Medical Practice Act which includes
a reprimand, probation or the suspension or revocation of the Respondent’s medical
license; and be it further

ORDERED that this CONSENT ORDER is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant

to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§4-101 through 4-601 (2014).

| ; Signature on File
(0/22 ]z01
Dat Christine A. Farrelly ! (4
Executive Director 4
Maryland Board of Physicians
CONSENT
I, Michael Arata, M.D., acknowledge that I have had the opportunity to consult
with counsel before signing this document. By this Consent, I admit to the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law, and I agree and accept to be bound by this Consent Order
and its conditions and restrictions. I waive any rights I may have had to contest the

Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.
NUD

10
ll
12
13
14
15

- 16

17

18°

19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

 

 

27.

defined by section 2234, subdivision (e), of the Code, in that he has engaged in an act or acts of

(a)

(b)

@d)

€)

(f)

Respondent is further subject to disciplinary action under sections 2227 and 2234, as

Paragraphs 8 through 24, above, are hereby incorporated by reference

and realleged as if fully. set forth herein;

Respondent performed a risky and disproven invasive procedure on

patient A on or about January 13, 2015;

Respondent failed to obtain and/or document a comprehensive history

and failed to perform and/or document a comprehensive physical

examination on patient A; .

Respondent performed excessive and untiecessary laboratory testing on
. patient A which included, but were not limited to, a Salivary Cortisol

Test, Heart Rate Deep Breathing (HRDB) Test, a HRDB Analysis,

HRDB (R-R) Analysis, Valsalva Maneuver Test and Sweat Response

Test; ,

Respondent treated patient A without performing appropriate testing on

patient A to rule out other possible etiologies of her symptoms

including, but not limited to, sleep evaluation, testing for abdominal

discomfort, blood tests for thyroid, nutrient evaluation and heavy metal

testing, cardiac imaging, evaluation of upper gastrointestinal system,

evaluation of cortisol levels, and possible biofeedback; and

Respondent had billing irregularities in regard to his office visits and

the procedure he performed on patient A.

THIRD CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

(Dishonesty or Corruption)

dishonesty or corruption substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a_

physician, as more particularly alleged in paragraphs 8 through 24, above, which are hereby

incorporated by reference and realleged as if fully set forth herein.

fill

12

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO, 800-20 15-014936

 

 
Oo eo NY DBD A FP WY YP =

NM NM NY NHN NN NY NY NR es a
oN KD A BP YW NY F GD OO wo NI DBD HW FF YW N - OS

 

 

FOURTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
(Failure to Maintain Adequate or Accurate Records)

28. Respondent is further subject to disciplinary action under sections 2227 and 2234, as
defined by section 2266, of the Code, in that he failed to maintain adequate and accurate records -
in his care and treatment of patient A, as more particularly alleged in paragraphs 8 through 24,
above, which are hereby incorporated by reference and realleged as if fully set forth herein.

FIFTH CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE

 

(General Unprofessional Conduct)

29. Respondent is further subject to disciplinary action under sections 2227 and 2234, as
defined by section 2234, of the Code, in that he has engaged in conduct which breached the rules
or ethical code of the medical profession or which was unbecoming a member in good standing of
the medical profession, and which demonstrates an unfitness to practice medicine, as more
particularly alleged in paragraphs 8 through 28, above, are hereby incorporated by reference and
realleged as if fully set forth herein.

HITT
Hil
HI/1
H//1
// / /
///1
H///
M/Tt
M/Tl
Mil
Mil
Ml
M11
‘ttl

13

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO, 800-2015-014936

 
on tN

oO

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

18,

19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

 

PRAYER

WHEREFORE, Complainant requests that a hearing be held on the matters herein alleged,
and that following the hearing, the Medical Board of California issue a decision:

1. Revoking or suspending Physician's and Surgeon’s Certificate Number A 70967,
issued to Respondent Michael Andrew Arata, M.D.;

2.  Revoking, suspending or denying approval of Respondent Michael Andrew Arata,
M.D.’s authority to supervise physician assistants and advanced practice nurses;

3. Ordering Respondent Michael Andrew Arata, M_D., if placed on probation, to pay the
Board the costs of probation monitoring; and

4. Taking such other and further action as deemed necessary and proper.

 
    

DATED: June 28, 2018 .
: KIMBERLY KYRCHMEYER

Executive Director

Medical Board of California

Department of Consumer Affairs

State of California
Complainant
$D2018700800
71495698.docx
14

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 

 
l acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to
all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I acknowledge the
legal authority and the jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue
and enforce this Consent Order. | also affirm that I am waiving my right to appeal any
adverse ruling of the Board that might have followed any such hearing.

I sign this Consent Order after having had an opportunity to consult with counsel,
without reservation, and I fully understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms of this Consent Order, I voluntarily sign this Consent Order, and understand its

Signature on File

meaning and effect.

[Gta — ee
Date A © Michael Arata, M.D.
Respondent

sratgor__C ali fornia
crrvcounty or _©) rang e

1 HEREBY CERTIFY that on this th day of Octobe  , 2019, before
me, the subscriber, a Notary Public for the State and City/County atinesattl personally
appeared Michael Arata; M.D., and made oath in due form of law that the execution of
the foregoing Consent Agreement was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and my notarial seal

Alan 4.

Notary Public

MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:

Mas 4 th 3023 2 ALAN A, GURVEY

Notary Public - California

oie Prnrsii
MN é tary Cer ti Fj unte 5 My eae May 9, 2023
: Attache A

 
JURAT

 

 

A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who signed the
document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.

 

State of California
County of Orange } ss.

Subscribed and sworn to (or affirmed) before me on this Athday

ot October 2019, by Michae\ Acata A.D. and
, proved to me on the basis of

satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) who appeared before me.

ALAN A. GURVEY
Notary Public - California
Orange County
Commission + 2287911

My Comm. Expires May 9. 2023 3
an

Signature of Notary
Name of Notary: Alan A. Gurvey

(seal)

OPTIONAL INFORMATION

Date of Docu
Type or Title of Docu

Number of Pages in Document

Document in a Foreign Language

Capacity of Signer:
Individual
Corporate Officer — Title(s):
Partner — 0 Limited 1 General
Attorney In Fact
Trustee
Guardian or Conservator
Other:

 

Signer Is Representing:

 

 

 
BEFORE THE
‘MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
' DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
. STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of the Accusation Against:

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D. Case No. 800-2015-014936

Physician's and Surgeon's
Certificate No. A 70967 —

Respondent

NN a

DECISION

The attached Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is hereby adopted as the
Decision and Order of the Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs,
State of California.

This Decision shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on July 12, 2019,

IT ISSO ORDERED: June 12, 2019.

MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA |

 

Panel A

DCU32 (Rev 01-2019}
 

 

 

XAVIER BECERRA

Attorney General of California

MATTHEW M. DAVIS

Supervising Deputy Attorney General

MARTIN W. HAGAN

Deputy Attorney General

State Bar No, 155553

600 West Broadway, Suite 1800

San Diego, CA 92101

P.O. Box 85266

San Diego, CA 92186-5266
Telephone: (619) 738-9405
Facsimile: (619) 645-2061

Attorneys for Complainant

BEFORE THE - :
MEDICAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

   
   
   
   

Case No, 800-2015-014936

 

In the Matter of the Accusation Against:

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D.
4501 Birch Street
Newport Beach, CA 92660

OAH No. 2018081143

STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND

Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate No. DISCIPLINARY ORDER

A70967

Respondent.

IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED by and between the parties to the above-

entitled proceedings that the following matters are true;
PARTIES

1.'. Kimberly Kirchmeyer (Complainant) is the Executive Director of the Medical Board
of California (Board), She brought this action solely in her official capacity and is represented in
this matter by Xavier Becerra, Attorney General of the State of California, by Martin W, Hagan,
Deputy Attorney General,

2, Respondent Michael Andrew Arata, M.D. (Respondent) is represented in this
proceeding by Raymond J. McMahon, Esq., of Doyle Schafer & McMahon, whose address is:
5440 Trabuco Road, Irvine, California 92620..

I . .
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936).

 

 
 

 

3. On of about March 3, 2000, the Board issued Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate
No. 470967 to Respondent. The Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate was in full force and
effect at all times relevant to the charges brought in Accusation No, 800-2015-014936, and will
expire on September 30, 2019, unless renewed.

JURISDICTION |

4. Onor about June 28, 2018, Accusation No, 800-2015-014936 was filed before the
Board, and is currently pending against Respondent. The Accusation and all other statutorily
required documents were properly served on Respondent on June 28, 2018, Respondent timely
filed his Notice of Defense contesting the Accusation. A true and correct copy of Accusation No.
800-2015-014936 is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference as if fully
set forth herein. .

ADVISEMENT AND WAIVERS

5. Respondent has carefully read, fully discussed with counsel, and understands the

|| charges and allegations in Accusation No, 800-2015-014936. Respondent has also carefully read,

fully discussed with counsel, and understands the effects of this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order. :

6, -Respondent is fully aware of his legal rights in this matter, including the right to a
hearing on the charges and allegations in the Accusation; the right to confront and cross-examine
the witnesses against him; the right to present evidence and to testify on his own ‘behalf; the right

to the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of

)
‘documents; the right to reconsideration and court review of an adverse decision; and all other

rights accorded by the California Administrative Procedure Acct and other applicable laws,

7. Respondent voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently waives and gives up each and
every right set forth above.
Hille
‘it
‘til

2 .
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
NY N NY NY BW NY NY DP NN ewe ee ee
ort Dn HW FF BN = DBO Oo DQM HR HUD FPF DW HB —|— ©

Ce IY A Ww FR WwW WN

 

 

CULPABILITY

8. Respondent agrees that, at an administrative hearing, Complainant could establish a
prima facie case with respect to the charges and allegations in Accusation No. 800-201 5-014936,
and that he has thereby subjected his Physician’s and Surgeon's Certificate No. A70967 to -
disciplinary action, Respondent further agrees to be bound by the Board’s imposition of
discipline as set forth in the Disciplinary Order below.

9.- Respondent further agrees that if he ever petitions fot early termination or -
modification of probation, or if an accusation and/or petition for revocation of probation is filed
against him before the Board, all of the charges and allegations contained in Accusation No, 800-
2015-014936 shall be deemed true, correct and fully admitted by Respondent for purposes of that
proceeding or any other licensing proceeding involving Respondent in the State of California or
elsewhere,

10. Respondent further agrees that he will not seek reinstatement from or with the U.S,
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), pursuant to 21 GRR. section 812.1 19, subdivision (f),,08
any other applicable authority, to have his eligibility reinstated to conduct clinical trials or
investigations for products regulated by the FDA, that was revoked by the FDA through their ,
Denial of Hearing and Disqualification Letter of May 21, 2018.

11, Respondent agrees that his Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate is’subject to
discipline and he agrees to be bound by the Board’s probationary terms as set forth in the
Disciplinary Order below.

CONTINGENCY

12, This stipulation shall be subject to approval by the Medical Board of California,»
Respondent understands and agrees that counsel for Complainant and the staff of the Medical
Board of California may communicate directly with the Board regarding this stipulation and ©
settlement, without notice to or participation by Respondent or his counsel, By signing the
stipulation, Respondent understands and agrees that he may not withdraw his agreement or seek
to rescind the stipulation prior to the time the Board considers and acts upon it. If the Board fails
to adopt this stipulation as its Decision and Order, the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary

. 3 :
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
