IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

TARIK Y. FARRAG, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D87559 * Case Number: 2223-0062A

* * x & * * * * x * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

 

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of TARIK Y. FARRAG, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D87559, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §
10-226(c) (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2022 Supp.), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the investigatory
information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to Panel A, including the
instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the following facts are true: !

1 BACKGROUND
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine

‘The statements regarding Panel A’s investigative findings are intended to provide the Respondent with
notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
in Maryland on May 22, 2019, under License Number D87559. The Respondent’s license is
current through September 30, 2024.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent held active medical licenses in Florida,
Georgia and Alabama, and inactive licenses in North Carolina, Oklahoma, and Utah. On or about
February 22, 2023, the Alabama State Board of Medical Examiners (the “Alabama Board”) issued
an Order Temporarily Suspending License and Setting Hearing against the Respondent.

3. On or about January 23, 2023, a staff member at the Federation of State Medical
Boards (“FSMB”) sent an email to the Board reporting its discovery that the Respondent submitted
forged documents in connection with his application for privileges at a health care facility (the “FL
Facility”)? in Sarasota, Florida. Specifically, during the credentialing process, the FL Facility
contacted the residency director (the “Residency Director”) of the Respondent’s residency
program (the “Residency Program”), which the Respondent represented that he had completed the
entire three-year program, to verify his completion. In response, the Residency Director notified
the FL Facility that the Respondent had been terminated for professionalism issues after Program
Year 1.

4. After receiving the report from FSMB, the Board initiated an investigation of the
Respondent.

IL. BOARD INVESTIGATION

5. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained, inter alia, investigative materials

from FSMB, the FL Facility, the Residency Director and the Residency Program, including the

Respondent’s residency file. The Board reviewed its own licensing file of the Respondent.

? For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in
this case are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and
heaith care facilities referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.
A, FL Facility Credentialing Process

6. The Board’s investigation revealed that the Respondent, in applying for privileges
at the FL Facility, submitted at least four documents purportedly from the Residency Director that
were altered or forged. These documents contained statements attributed to the Residency Director,
as well as the Residency Director’s signatures, that were all fraudulent. Moreover, the Respondent
submitted a training certificate purportedly from the Residency Program that had been altered.

7. The Respondent impersonated the Residency Director by using a fake email address

purportedly belonging to the Residency Director to create the impression that the Residency

 

 

Director submitted these documents to the FL Facility, when in fact it was the Respondent who
submitted these forged and altered documents.

8. Moreover, the Respondent submitted fictitious emails purportedly from staff
members at the American Board of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery falsely stating that
the Respondent was eligible for board-certification,

B. The Respondent’s Board Initial Application

9. In reviewing its own licensing file of the Respondent, the Board discovered that the
Respondent also made material misrepresentations and submitted forged documents.

10. On or about April 2, 2019, the Board received an Application for Initial Medical
Licensure (the “Initial Application’), which was dated March 26, 2019, from the Respondent.

11, In the Initial Application under numeral 13 entitled “Postgraduate Training,” the
Respondent misrepresented that he attended the Residency Program from July 2009 to June 2014,
when in fact he only completed 11 months of training from July 1, 2009, to May 25, 2011, as
shown by the Respondent’s Certificate of Postgraduate Training the Board obtained from the

Residency Program. In order to qualify for licensure as a graduate of a foreign medical school,
the Respondent had to have successfully completed at least two years of training in a U.S.
postgraduate clinical medical education program accredited by an organization recognized by the
Board, which he did not.

12. As part of the credentialing process for initial licensure with the Board, the
Respondent was required to have the Residency Program submit a Verification of Postgraduate
Medical Education (the “Verification Form”) to the Board. On or about April 24, 2019, the Board
received Verification Form purportedly from the Chairman of the Residency Program verifying
that the Respondent attended the Residency Program from July 1, 2009, to June 30, 2014. During
the investigation when Board staff showed the Residency Program Chairman the Verification
Form, he denied ever issuing that Verification Form and stated that the signature on the form was
a forged signature.

13. Moreover, in the Initial Application under numeral 16 entitled “Character and
Fitness Questions,” the Respondent checked “NO” to the following questions:

f. Has a hospital, related health care facility, HMO, or alternative
health care system ever denied your application, failed to renew
your privileges, including your privileges as a resident, or limited,
restricted, suspended, or revoked your privileges in any way?

n Has your employment or contractual relationship with any hospital,
other health care facility, health care provider, institution, armed
services, or the Veterans Administration ever been terminated for
disciplinary reasons?

14. The Respondent willfully failed to disclose that on or about May 26, 2011, the

Residency Program terminated his position and privileges as a resident physician at the Residency

Program due to his failure to demonstrate professionalism and adhere to ethical principles.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol. and 2022 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs.

(“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).
ORDER

It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t
§ 10-22.6(c)(2) and COMAR10.32.02.08B(7)(a), the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that during the course of the summary suspension, the Respondent shall not
practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance — with
COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7) on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, April 12,
2023, at 12:00 p.m. before Panel A at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation hearing before Panel A, the
Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request within ten (10) days an
evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request, before an
Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building,
11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed with the

Board in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2021 Repl. Vol. and 2022 Supp.); and it is further
ORDERED that this is an Order of Disciplinary Panel A, and as such, is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Provisions §

4-333(b)(6).

Signature On
3) 2¢ [D003 File_

Date Ellen Douglas Smith

Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
