IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

TARIK FARRAG, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D87559 * Case Number: 2223-0062A
* * x * * x * * * & x * *
ORDER OF DEFAULT

On March 30 2023, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged Tarik Farrag, M.D., with fraudulently or deceptively obtaining or attempting to
obtain a license, see Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(1); unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); and willfully making’ a false
representation when seeking or making application for licensure, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(36).
On July 13, 2023, the case was referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for an
evidentiary hearing. .

On July 27, 2023, OAH sent a notice to the parties that a scheduling conference would be
held on September 1, 2023, at 9:30 a.m., by video-conference. The Notice of Scheduling
Conference was sent to Dr. Farrag at his address of record. On August 21, 2023, the Notice of
Scheduling Conference, which was sent to Dr. Farrag, was returned to OAH as undeliverable.

On September 1, 2023, at 9:45 a.m., the Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) commenced
the scheduling conference by video-conference. The administrative prosecutor appeared on behalf
of the State. Dr. Farrag did not appear, nor did anyone else appear on his behalf. After consulting
with the administrative prosecutor, the prehearing conference was scheduled for October 2, 2023.
After the scheduling conference had concluded and the administrative prosecutor was excused, Dr.

Farrag appeared at the scheduling conference at 10:30 am. The ALJ emailed and called the

 
administrative prosecutor and asked him to return to the conference. At 10:45 a.m., the ALJ
admitted Dr. Farrag to the conference and informed him of the prehearing conference scheduled
for October 2, 2023. The ALJ also confirmed Dr. Farrag’s mailing address of record. Dr. Farrag
stated that the address is under construction and cannot accept mail but asked that OAH continue
to send mail to that address and advised that he would pick up the mail at the post office. He stated
that he had no alternate address.

Following the scheduling conference, on September 1, 2023, OAH sent a Notice of
Prehearing Conference to the parties that notified the parties that a prehearing conference would
be held on October 2, 2023, at 9:30 a.m., by video-conference. The notice included a web link to
join the video-conference and also a telephone number to call into the conference. The Notice of
Prehearing Conference informed Dr. Farrag that the failure to appear or to give timely notice of
his inability to appear at the prehearing conference could result in a decision against him.

On September 6, 2023, OAH also sent an email to Dr. Farrag that stated the following:

Since we did have some mail returned previously, the ALJ wanted to be sure you

received the notice for the upcoming prehearing conference scheduled for Monday

October 2 at 9:30am via the WebEx platform. (This exact notice has been mailed

to the address you confirmed with the ALJ).

Please note on the notice that the web address and meeting room number is listed.

Should you have any difficulty please be sure to reach out before the start of the

hearing. I do typically respond to emails so via email or phone is fine.

On September 8, 2023, OAH sent a scheduling order that notified the parties of the date
and time of the prehearing conference and stated that Dr. Farrag shall inform OAH of any. changes
to his mailing address, email address, and telephone number. On September 26, 2023, OAH
received the scheduling order that was sent to Dr. Farrag by first-class mail returned as

undeliverable with the notation “Vacant” stamped on the envelope. The Notice of Prehearing

Conference was returned to OAH as undeliverable on September 29, 2023. The email was not

 
returned as undeliverable, and there was no response to the email sent by the OAH docket specialist
prior to the start of the prehearing conference.

On October 2, 2023, the ALJ held the prehearing conference. The administrative prosecutor
appeared on behalf of the State. Dr. Farrag did not appear. At 9:33 a.m., the ALJ sent an email to
Dr. Farrag with an invitation to join the conference. After waiting until 9:46 a.m., the ALJ
commenced the prehearing conference. The ALJ noted that neither Dr. Farrag nor anyone
authorized to represent him appeared at the prehearing conference after 16 minutes from the
scheduled start time. The ALJ then proceeded with the prehearing conference, and the
administrative prosecutor moved for a proposed default order. The ALJ granted the motion for a
proposed default order.

At 6:22 p.m., on October 2, 2023, Dr. Farrag sent an email in response to the OAH docket
specialist who had emailed him the prehearing conference reminder on September 8, 2023. The
email stated:

I truly apologize for missing the date today very unintentionally. I am available

any day and anytime. Kindly apologize to the very Honorable Judge on my behalf.

I’m all into discussing, and willing to do whatever the Judge is deciding. I had a

computer problem, while my laptop is a brand new one. Very suddenly. I handled

this very sudden issue, and will be receiving a temporary one overnighted to me

first thing tomorrow morning. One more time, my extreme apologies.

Dr. Farrag did not provide an explanation as to why he was unable to contact OAH using his phone
or call into the conference using the call-in number.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “if, after receiving proper notice as provided in
Regulation .05C of this chapter, a party fails to attend or participate, either personally or through

a representative, in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the ALJ may

proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated by the

 

 
agency, issue a final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.’ COMAR
28.02.01.23A.

On October 11, 2023, the ALJ issued a written Proposed Default Order. The ALJ found
that Dr. Farrag had proper notice of the October 2, 2023, prehearing conference and that he failed
to appear or participate. The ALJ proposed that the Panel find Dr. Farrag in default, adopt as
findings of fact the statements set forth in the allegations of fact section of the charges, and
conclude as a matter of law that Dr. Farrag violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(1), (3)(ii), and (36).
As a sanction, the ALJ proposed that Dr. Farrag’s license to practice medicine in Maryland be
revoked.

The ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Dr. Farrag, the administrative
prosecutor, and the Board at the parties’ respective addresses of record. The Proposed Default
Order notified the parties that they may file written exceptions to the proposed order but must do
so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed Default Order. The Proposed Default Order stated
that any exceptions and requests for a hearing must be sent to the Board with a copy provided to
the opposing party. The Proposed Default Order sent to Dr. Farrag was not returned to OAH as
undeliverable. On October 17, 2023, the Board sent a letter to the parties providing further
instructions regarding the filing of exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order. The letter was
sent to Dr. Farrag at his address of record and via email to the same email address he used to
communicate with the OAH docket specialist. The letter was not returned to the Board as
undeliverable. Neither party filed exceptions. On December 20, 2023, this case came’ before

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Board for final disposition.

 

 
FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel B concludes that Dr. Farrag has defaulted and has not filed exceptions to

 

the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted from the allegations
of fact in the March 30, 2023 charges and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence:

1. The Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on May
22, 2019, under License Number D87559. The Respondent’s license was current
through September 30, 2024.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent held active medical licenses in
Florida, Georgia and Alabama, and inactive licenses in North Carolina, Oklahoma,
and Utah. On or about February 22, 2023, the Alabama State Board of Medical
Examiners (the “Alabama Board”) issued an Order Temporarily Suspending
License and Setting Hearing against the Respondent.

3. On or about January 23, 2023, a staff member at the Federation of State
Medical Boards (“FSMB”) sent an email to the Board reporting its discovery that
the Respondent submitted forged documents in connection with his application for
privileges at a health care facility (the “FL Facility”) in Sarasota, Florida.
Specifically, during the credentialing process, the FL Facility contacted the
residency director (the “Residency Director’) of the Respondent’s residency.
program (the “Residency Program”), which the Respondent represented that he had
completed the entire three-year program, to verify his completion. In response, the
Residency Director notified the FL Facility that the Respondent had been
terminated for professionalism issues after Program Year |.

4, After receiving the report from FSMB, the Board initiated an investigation
of the Respondent.

5. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained, inter alia, investigative
materials from FSMB, the FL Facility, the Residency Director and the Residency
Program, including the Respondent’s residency file. The Board reviewed its own
licensing file of the Respondent.

6. The Board’s investigation revealed that the Respondent, in applying for
privileges at the FL Facility, submitted at least four documents purportedly from
the Residency Director that were altered or forged. These documents contained
statements attributed to the Residency Director, as well as the Residency Director’s
signatures, that were all fraudulent. Moreover, the Respondent submitted a training
certificate purportedly from the Residency Program that had been altered.
7. The Respondent impersonated the Residency Director by using a fake email
address purportedly belonging to the Residency Director to create the impression
that the Residency Director submitted these documents to the FL Facility, when in
fact it was the Respondent who submitted these forged and altered documents.

8. Moreover, the Respondent submitted fictitious emails purportedly from
staff members at the American Board of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
falsely stating that the Respondent was eligible for board-certification.

9. In reviewing its own licensing file of the Respondent, the Board discovered
that the Respondent also made material misrepresentations and submitted forged
documents.

10. On or about April 2, 2019, the Board received an Application for Initial
Medical Licensure (the “Initial Application”), which was dated March 26, 2019,
from the Respondent.

11. In the Initial Application under numeral 13 entitled “Postgraduate
Training,” the Respondent misrepresented that he attended the Residency Program
from July 2009 to June 2014, when in fact he only completed 11 months of training
from July 1, 2009, to May 25, 2011, as shown by the Respondent’s Certificate of
Postgraduate Training the Board obtained from the Residency Program. In order
to qualify for licensure as a graduate of a foreign medical school, the Respondent
had to have successfully completed at least two years of training in a U.S.
postgraduate clinical medical education program accredited by an organization
recognized by the Board, which he did not.

12. As part of the credentialing process for initial licensure with the Board, the.
Respondent was required to have the Residency Program submit a Verification of
Postgraduate Medical Education (the “Verification Form”) to the Board. On or
about April 24, 2019, the Board received Verification Form purportedly from the
Chairman of the Residency Program verifying that the Respondent attended the
Residency Program from July 1, 2009, to June 30, 2014. During the investigation
when Board staff showed the Residency Program Chairman the Verification Form,
he denied ever issuing that Verification Form and stated that the signature on the
form was a forged signature.

13. Moreover, in the Initial Application under numeral 16 entitled “Character
and Fitness Questions,” the Respondent checked “NO” to the following questions:

f. Has a hospital, related health care facility, HMO, or
alternative health care system ever denied your application, failed to
renew your privileges, including your privileges as a resident, or
limited, restricted, suspended, or revoked your privileges in any
way?

 

 
n. Has your employment or contractual relationship with any
hospital, other health care facility, health care provider, institution,
armed services, or the Veterans Administration ever been
terminated for disciplinary reasons?
14. The Respondent willfully failed to disclose that on or about May 26, 2011,
the Residency Program terminated his position and privileges as a resident
physician at the Residency Program due to his failure to demonstrate
professionalism and adhere to ethical principles.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Panel B finds Dr. Farrag in default based upon his failure to appear at OAH for the
prehearing conference scheduled for October 2, 2023. See Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-
210(4). Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, Panel B concludes that Dr. Farrag fraudulently
or deceptively obtained or attempted to obtain a license, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(1);
is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii); and willfully made a false representation when seeking or making application for
licensure, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(36).
SANCTION
Panel B adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ to revoke Dr. Farrag’s license to
practice medicine in Maryland.
ORDER
It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby
ORDERED that the license of Tarik Farrag, M.D. to practice medicine in Maryland is
REVOKED; and it is further
ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and

Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

 
Signature On File

Date Christine A, Farrelly, Exe utiye Director
Maryland State Board of Rhysicians

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Farrag has the right to seek judicial
review of this Order of Default. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within thirty (30)
days from the date of mailing of this Order of Default. The cover letter accompanying this Order
indicates the date the decision was mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made as
provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title
7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Dr. Farrag files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
Stacey Darin
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
