IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

   

ABHISHEK FREYER M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D88339 * Case Number: 2221-0011A
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On October 28, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged ABHISHEK FREYER M.D. (the “Respondent”,
License Number D88339, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.).'! The
pertinent provisions of the Act provide the following:

Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions,
and revocations -- Grounds.

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of
the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine;

* On October 26, 2020, Panel A summarily suspended the Respondent’s license pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.). On November 5, 2020, after a show
cause hearing, the summary suspension was continued.
 

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent[.]

On December 2, 2020, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for
Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of
this DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel A of the Board finds the following:

I. BACKGROUND

lL. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on September 27, 2019, under License Number D88339.

2, The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as a physician at
a practice that provides pulmonology and critical care services (the “Practice”) with
privileges to practice as an intensivist in the intensive care unit at a hospital located in
Baltimore County, Maryland (the “Hospital”).

4. On or about May 28, 2020, the Board received a complaint from a
physician assistant (the “Physician Assistant”) alleging the Respondent exhibited
“jnappropriate agitated behavior and apparent impairment of his ability to ‘dial in’
cognitively” on April 6, 2020, and additional concerning behaviors on May 19, 2020, at

the Hospital.

 
NOTARY

STATE OF _()ac4 oun

 

CITY/COUNTY OF 20 \KnnCe AY

4
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this _|\) = day_—of
Re ce bt , 2020, before me, a Notary Public of the State and County
aforesaid, personally appeared Abhishek Freyer, M.D., and gave oath in due form of law

that the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

 

My Commission Expires: Sst A203

     
 
     

JOSEPH YOUNT
Notary Public-Maryland

! Baltimore City

¢ My Commission Expires

L eogpteomber 20, 2023

11
 

 

5. On or about June 3, 2020, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
from the Hospital which reported that the Respondent’s privileges were suspended after
he was observed behaving inappropriately at the beginning of his shift on May 19, 2020,
including arriving late, being unable to focus or being disoriented, slurring words and
having slow speech, glassy or glazed eyes, sweating, being loud and angry as well as
other concerns.

6. On receipt of the report, the Board initiated an investigation into the
allegations.

Il. BOARD INVESTIGATION

7. As part of its investigation, Board staff conducted interviews and obtained
records including the personnel files from the Practice and the Hospital, as well as
records from the Maryland Physician Health Program (“MPHP”).”

8. The Board’s investigation revealed on April 6, 2020, the Respondent was
observed yelling at a technician for not standing six feet away from another co-worker at
the Hospital.’ Then, after the encounter with the technician, the Respondent went to a
patient’s room, and based on the Physician Assistant’s observation, stood at the door,
looked at the patient, and yelled in a “bizarre” fashion, “Oh, my God. Oh, my God. She
looks terrible.” The Respondent then said they needed to intubate the patient, when the

patient was already intubated. The Physician Assistant attempted to present the patient’s

? The Respondent signed a release for the Board to receive the MPHP records, and the Board reviewed
the records as part of the investigation.

> According to the Board investigator’s interview of the Department of Medicine and Director of Clinical
Care at the Hospital (the “Chairman”), April 6, 2020, “was not the first time that he had demonstrated
volatile behavior.” Additionally, the Board’s investigation revealed at least four staff members reported
observing the Respondent yell at the technician.
 

a

case to the Respondent but described that he seemed unable to engage and at one point
backed out of the room and stumbled. The Respondent then re-entered the room and
requested an ultrasound machine even though there were already two visible ultrasound
machines in the room. While the Respondent took ultrasound images he remained “oddly
agitated and just reactive.”

9. On April 7, 2020 at 6:54 p.m., the CEO of the Practice (the “CEO”)
directed the Respondent to submit to a drug screening the following day. The Respondent
failed to appear for a drug screen on April 8.

10. On May 19, 2020, two doctors of osteopathy (“D.O. #1” and “D.O. #2”)
reported concerns to the Department of Medicine and Director of Clinical Care at the
Hospital (the “Chairman”) questioning the Respondent’s ability to practice medicine and
requested that the Chairman come assess the situation.*

ll. Specifically, D.O. #1 reported that the Respondent appeared “glazed over,”
his speech was slow and slurred, and he did not seem to be paying attention to D.O. #1.
For example, D.O. #1 explained to the Board’s investigator that after she went through all
fifteen patients with the Respondent in detail, he replied, “so what do I have to check
again tonight?”

12. D.O. #2 also reported that when the Respondent arrived that evening his
eyes were “glassy,” his pupils were constricted, he had slurred speech, was diaphoretic,

tremulous, was swaying, and seemed unsteady. D.O. #2 further reported that the

“In addition to D.O. #1 and D.O. #2, at least two other staff members present at the time made reports of
the Respondent’s concerning behavior.

° D.O. #2 also observed the Respondent interact with D.O. #1 in a disoriented manner where the
Respondent was unable to accurately reflect back what D.O. #1 had reported to him about the patients.

 
 

Respondent was gesturing with his hands “in a strange way” and was not replying
appropriately to patient care issues.°

13. When the Chairman arrived at the Hospital, he sent the Respondent home
due to the unusual behavior that was reported and because of the other medical staff’s
lack of confidence in the Respondent’s ability to work that evening.

14. After the Respondent was sent home, the CEO called the Respondent on
May 19, 2020, at which time, the Respondent was “very erratic, slurring his words, his
conversation was difficult to follow.” Subsequently, on May 20, 2020 at 9:06 a.m., the
Respondent was instructed to submit to a drug screening that morning. The Respondent
did not present for the drug screening on May 20, 2020.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board
concludes as a matter of law that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) and being
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent in violation of Health Occ. § 14-

404(a)(4).

° During her interview with the Board’s investigator, D.O. #2 reported experiencing prior challenges
working with the Respondent stating he “consistently demonstrates labile temperament, volatile
behavior . . . ineffective clinical judgment and ability to kind of participate in the care team.”

5

 
ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent’s Order for Summary Suspension of License to

 

Practice Medicine, dated October 26, 2020; and is hereby TERMINATED AS MOOT;

 

and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED,”
and it is further

ORDERED that during the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the
following terms and conditions of the suspension:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. The Respondent shall not withdraw his/her release/consent;

7 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any
conditions will be tolled.
(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (ie., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including,
but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his/her release/consent;

   

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;

 

2. MPRP will arrange for a psychiatric evaluation and any other evaluation(s) that
MPRP determines are necessary to assess the Respondent's safety to return to the
practice of medicine. The Respondent shall submit to the psychiatric evaluation
and any other evaluation(s) as directed by MPRP;

3. The Respondent shall successfully complete MPRP and be found safe to practice
by MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that during the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:
(1) practice medicine;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself or herself
out to the public as a current provider of medical services;

(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(5) prescribe or dispense medications; or
(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is further

ORDERED that if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the Respondent is
safe to return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent may submit a written petition to
the disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of the Respondent's license. The

Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his or her
i

 

petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated
through an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any
terms and conditions it deems appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice,
including, but not limited to, probation and/or continuation of the Respondent’s
enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be continued
through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and

conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive

Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel

’ which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the

Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a

 
Se

disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

auiien Signature on File

Date Christine A. Farrelly, Bxedutive Dino
Maryland State Board of PhySicians =|
 

CONSENT

I, Abhishek Freyer, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before signing
this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

1 assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to
all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those
procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the
jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce
this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and
meaning of its terms.

how Signature on File
ie ul

Date Abhisttek Freyer, MLD.

10

 
