IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ABHISHEK FREYER M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D88339 * Case Number: 7721-0076

* * * * * * * * % * * x *

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION

On October 28, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged ABHISHEK FREYER M.D. (the “Respondent”), under
the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”) Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef
seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.).

As a resolution to the charges, the Respondent entered into a Consent Order with
Panel A on December 14, 2020, that concluded he was guilty of unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine, in violation of § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), and was professionally,
physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of § 14-404(a)(4)'. Pursuant to the
Consent Order, the Respondent was reprimanded, and his license to practice medicine in
Maryland was suspended. The Respondent was also required to comply with certain
conditions of suspension including: enrolling and participating in the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”); and participating in all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP. The Consent Order provided that the

Respondent may submit a written petition to terminate the suspension, upon notification to

' The December 14, 2020 Consent Order is incorporated by reference and is available upon request.
the Board by MPRP that the Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine. The
Consent Order further provided that if the panel determined that the Respondent could
safely return to the practice of medicine, the suspension may be terminated through an
order of the panel, and the panel may impose any terms and conditions it deemed
appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation
and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP.
ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the December 14, 2020 Consent Order
is TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Reprimand imposed by the December 14, 2020 Consent Order
remains in effect; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period
of ONE (1) YEAR? from the effective date of this Order. The Respondent shall comply
with the following terms and conditions of probation:

‘l.. Upon his return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent shall inform the

Board in writing of his current employer or employers, the employer’s or employers’
address or addresses, and of all locations, including hospitals, at which the Respondent

provides health care services.

2 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will
be tolled.
2. The Respondent shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional

Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

The Respondent shall continue his Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be
entered into an amended Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan, as determined by MPRP, to include a
third-party vocational monitor;

The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited
to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to
the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information
from MPRP records and files in a public order. A failure to, or
withdrawal of consent, is a violation of this Order;

The Respondent shall sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists’
and treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning
the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.
The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions, including terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order.

3. Within ONE (1) YEAR of the effective date of this Order, the Respondent

is required to take a course in PROFESSIONALISM, with a focus on appropriate
interactions and communications with co-workers and colleagues in the workplace. The

following terms apply:
(a) It is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and

obtain the disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before
the course is begun;

(b) The disciplinary panel will accept an in-person course, or
during the state of emergency, a course taken over the internet;

(c) The Respondent must provide documentation to the
disciplinary panel that the Respondent has successfully
completed the course;

(d) The course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical

education credits required for license renewal; and

(e) | The Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it
is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation;
and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Order; and
it is further

ORDERED that after the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all
terms and conditions of probation, and the minimum period of probation imposed by this
Order has passed, the Respondent may submit a written petition for termination of
probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an
order of a disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be required to appear before the
disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant

the petition to terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if the
Respondent has successfully complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions
and if there are no pending complaints related to the charges that led to the December 14,
2020 Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a
material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order,
the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation
with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of
the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent and it is
further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date the Order is signed by

the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or designee
signs the Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and
conditions of this Order, and it is further
ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. §§ 1-607 and 14-411.1, and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b) (2014 & 2019 Supp.).

 

6Z fel — Chair
Christine A. Farrelly, Ex¢

Date

  

Maryland State Board of
