 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ABHISHEK FREYER M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D88339 * Case Number: 2221-0011A

* * * * * * * x & * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of ABHISHEK FREYER M.D.
(the “Respondent”), License Number D88339, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov't § 10-226(c) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), concluding that the public health,
safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true: !

' The statements regarding Panel A’s investigative findings are intended to provide the Respondent with
notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
 

I. BACKGROUND

lL. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on September 27, 2019, under License Number D88339. The
Respondent’s license is current through September 30, 2022.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as a physician at
a practice that provides pulmonology and critical care services (the “Practice”)* with
privileges to practice as an intensivist in the intensive care unit at a hospital located in
Baltimore County, Maryland (the “Hospital”).

4. On or about May 28, 2020, the Board received a complaint from a physician
assistant (the “Physician Assistant”) alleging the Respondent exhibited “inappropriate
agitated behavior and apparent impairment of his ability to ‘dial in’ cognitively” on April
6, 2020, and additional concerning behaviors on May 19, 2020, at the Hospital.

5. On or about June 3, 2020, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
from the Hospital which reported that the Respondent’s privileges were suspended after he
was observed behaving inappropriately at the beginning of his shift on May 19, 2020,

including arriving late, being unable to focus or being disoriented, slurring words and

’ For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in
this case are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and
health care facilities referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.
 

having slow speech, glassy or glazed eyes, sweating, being loud and angry as well as other

concerns.

6. On receipt of the report, the Board initiated an investigation into the
allegations.

I. BOARD INVESTIGATION

7. As part of its investigation, Board staff conducted interviews and obtained
records including the personnel files from the Practice and the Hospital, as well as records
from the Maryland Physician Health Program (“MPHP”).?

8. The Board’s investigation revealed on April 6, 2020, the Respondent was
observed yelling at a technician for not standing six feet away from another co-worker at
the Hospital.’ Then, after the encounter with the technician, the Respondent went to a
patient’s room, and based on the Physician Assistant’s observation, stood at the door,
looked at the patient, and yelled in a “bizarre” fashion, “Oh, my God. Oh, my God. She
looks terrible.” The Respondent then said they needed to intubate the patient, when the
patient was already intubated. The Physician Assistant attempted to present the patient’s
case to the Respondent but described that he seemed unable to engage and at one point
backed out of the room and stumbled. The Respondent then re-entered the room and

requested an ultrasound machine even though there were already two visible ultrasound

> The Respondent signed a release for the Board to receive the MPHP records, and the Board reviewed the
records as part of the investigation.

4 According to the Board investigator’s interview of the Department of Medicine and Director of Clinical
Care at the Hospital (the “Chairman”), April 6, 2020, “was not the first time that he had demonstrated
volatile behavior.” Additionally, the Board’s investigation revealed at least four staff members reported
observing the Respondent yell at the technician.
 

machines in the room. While the Respondent took ultrasound images he remained “oddly
agitated and just reactive.”

9. On April 7, 2020 at 6:54 p.m., the CEO of the Practice (the “CEO”) directed
the Respondent to submit to a drug screening the following day. The Respondent failed to
appear for a drug screen on April 8.

10... On May 19, 2020, two doctors of osteopathy (“D.O. #1” and “D.O. #2”)
reported concerns to the Department of Medicine and Director of Clinical Care at the
Hospital (the “Chairman”) questioning the Respondent’s ability to practice medicine and
requested that the Chairman come assess the situation.>

11. Specifically, D.O. #1 reported that the Respondent appeared “glazed over,”
his speech was slow and slurred, and he did not seem to be paying attention to D.O. #1.
For example, D.O. #1 explained to the Board’s investigator that after she went through all
fifteen patients with the Respondent in detail, he replied, “so what do I have to check again
tonight?”

12. _D.O. #2 also reported that when the Respondent arrived that evening his eyes
were “glassy,” his pupils were constricted, he had slurred speech, was diaphoretic,

tremulous, was swaying, and seemed unsteady. D.O. #2 further reported that the

* In addition to D.O. #1 and D.O. #2, at least two other staff members present at the time made reports of
the Respondent’s concerning behavior.

° D.O. #2 also observed the Respondent interact with D.O. #1 ina disoriented manner where the Respondent
was unable to accurately reflect back what D.O. #1 had reported to him about the patients.

 
 

Respondent was gesturing with his hands “in a strange way” and was not replying
appropriately to patient care issues.’

13. When the Chairman arrived at the Hospital, he sent the Respondent home
due to the unusual behavior that was reported and because of the other medical staff's lack
of confidence in the Respondent's ability to work that evening.

14. After the Respondent was sent home, the CEO called the Respondent on May
19, 2020, at which time, the Respondent was “very erratic, slurring his words, his
conversation was difficult to follow.” Subsequently, on May 20, 2020 at 9:06 a.m., the
Respondent was instructed to submit to a drug screening that morning. The Respondent
did not present for the drug screening on May 20, 2020.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter of
law that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2019 Supp.)
and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08(B)(7)(a).

ORDER
It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:
ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by Md. Code Ann.,

State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR10.32.02.08(B)(7)(a), the Respondent’s license to

’ During her interview with the Board’s investigator, D.O. #2 reported experiencing prior challenges
working with the Respondent stating he “consistently demonstrates labile temperament, volatile
behavior . . . ineffective clinical judgment and ability to kind of participate in the care team.”
practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and
it is further

ORDERED that a_ post-deprivation hearing in accordance with
COMAR10.32.02.05(B)(7) on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday,
November 4, 2020, at 1:15 p.m. before Panel A at the Maryland State Board of Physicians,
4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request within ten (10)
days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Disciplinary Panel A, and as such, is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen,

Provisions § 4-333(b)(6).

{0 2b [2 020
Date Christine A. Farrelly \ U) /
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians

Signature on File
