IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

OLUWATOBI A. YEROKUN, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D90044 * Case Number: 2223-0030A
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

 

PROCEDURAL HISTORY

Oluwatobi A. Yerokun, M.D. was licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
on July 20, 2020, under License Number D90044. On September 21, 2022, in the United States
District Court for the Western District of Missouri, Dr. Yerokun pled guilty to one count of
Conspiracy to Make False Statements Related to Health Care Matters, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §
371 (U.S.A v. Oluwatobi Alabi Yerokun, Case # 22-cr-221-HFS).!

On February 2, 2023, the Office of the Attorney General filed with the Maryland Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) a petition to suspend Dr. Yerokun’s license to practice medicine
(“the Petition”) and a proposed Show Cause Order pursuant to section 14-404(b)(1) of the
Maryland Medical Practice Act. The statute provides:

d) On the filing of certified docket entries with the Board by the Office of the
Attorney General, a disciplinary panel shall order the suspension of a
license if the licensee is convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere
with respect to a crime involving moral turpitude, whether or not any

appeal or other proceeding is pending to have the conviction or plea set
aside.

' 18 U.S.C. § 371 states in pertinent part:

If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the United States, or to
defraud the United States, or any agency thereof in any manner or for any purpose, and one or
more of such persons do any act to affect the object of the conspiracy, each shall be fined under
this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both,

 
Md. Code Ann., Health Occupations Article (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(b) (2021 Repl. Vol.).
Attached to the Petition were copies of the certified docket entries, criminal information, and
plea agreement. As of the date of the Petition, Dr. Yerokun had not been sentenced.

On March 6, 2023, Dr. Yerokun, through his counsel, submitted a response, arguing that
his crime did not involve moral turpitude, and requested a hearing. Board Disciplinary Panel A
declines to grant Dr. Yerokun’s request for a hearing pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07 E(3).?

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel A issues this Final
Decision and Order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1).

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A finds the following:

lL. Oluwatobi A. Yerokun, M.D. was licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on July 20, 2020, under License Number D90044. His license is scheduled to expire
on September 30, 2023.

2. On September 21, 2022, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Western
District of Missouri filed an Information as to Dr. Yerokun’s violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371 —
Conspiracy to Make False Statements Regarding Health Care Matters (U.S.A v. Oluwatobi Alabi
Yerokun, Case # 22-cr-221-HFS).

3. Also on September 21, 2022, Dr. Yerokun pleaded guilty to one count of
Conspiracy to Make False Statements Related to Health Care Matters, in violation of 18 U.S.C.

§371.

> In 2013, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-401, the Board was divided into two disciplinary panels to resolve
disciplinary actions against physicians. See House Bill 1096, ch. 401, 2013 Md. Laws 3542. This case was
considered and decided by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board.

 
4. The factual basis for Dr. Yerokun’s guilty plea, agreed to by the parties, included
the following statements:

From on or about February 2019 through April 2021, Oluwatobi Alabi Yerokun was a
physician who practiced medicine, among other places, in the State of Missouri.

 

Medicare and Medicaid were “health care benefit programs” as defined by 18 U.S.C.§
24(b) and “Federal health care programs” as set forth in 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b(b).

On multiple occasions between 2015 and 2018, Yerokun signed enrollment applications
with Medicare which stated:

I agree to abide by Medicare laws, regulations, and program
instructions that apply to me...I understand that payment of a claim by
Medicare is conditioned upon the claim and the underlying transaction
complying with such laws, regulations, and program instructions
(including, but not limited to, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute...)

From on or about February 2019 to April 2021, certain individuals and entities, such as
marketing, physician recruiting, and telemedicine companies, some of whom were
unknown to Yerokun, developed a scheme that targeted Medicare and Medicaid patients
to obtain reimbursement from those programs and information about purported
“patients,” such as their insurance information. Company A, a locum tenens physician
staffing company, solicited Yerokun and contracted with him to work as a telemedicine
provider...Company A gave Yerokun access to electronic portals so that he could receive
information about the patients assigned to him. The information included, among other
things, the patient’s demographic information, the identity of the insurance provider such
as Medicare and Medicaid, and the type of durable medical equipment (DME) or genetic
testing that Yerokun was supposed to order for them.?

Much of the patient information that Yerokun received from Company A was pre-
populated, that is, it had been filled in before Yerokun received it... According to
Yerokun, he understood his assignment to be to only review the charts. Through the
electronic portal that Company A made available to defendant Yerokun, he electronically
signed the patient forms and orders he received from Company A. Yerokun signed the
patient forms and certified that the DME and genetic tests were medically necessary. For
the genetic tests, he also signed a separate letter of medical necessity.

Yerokun had no prior doctor-patient relationship with the Medicare or Medicaid
beneficiaries and did not see or communicate with them. Before Yerokun signed the
orders, he made little effort to find out how or from whom the patient information was

’ The Plea Agreement stated that because the type of genetic testing Dr. Yerokun ordered did not
diagnose cancer, Medicare only covered such tests in limited circumstances. Medicare did not cover the
genetic testing for beneficiaries who did not have cancer or lacked symptoms of cancer.

3
obtained, who collected the information, the qualifications of any person gathering or
providing the information, or whether the information was accurate and complete.
Yerokun provided no follow-up care for these patients after he signed the orders for them
to receive DME or genetic testing.

By knowingly and willfully electronically signing the orders, Yerokun made false and
fraudulent statements and documents by certifying medical necessity. The statements
and documents were false because, among other things, Yerokun did not have adequate
information to access medical necessity for the beneficiaries. In addition, he rarely, if
ever, declined to sign any orders. Moreover, for most of the patients, less than a minute
elapsed between when he accessed the patient’s information through the electronic portal
and when he signed the order for DME or genetic testing. Accordingly, he knew his false
and fraudulent statements were untrue when he made them.

 

Yerokun’s false statements and representations concerned material facts because
Medicare and Medicaid would not have paid the claims submitted by the DME
companies and testing laboratories if they had known that Yerokun had no physician-
patient relationship with the beneficiaries, did not see or evaluate them, and spent only
seconds to minutes reviewing the patient information.

... Yerokun’s orders for DME and genetic testing were not properly payable and

reimbursable by Medicare and Medicaid because, among other reasons, Yerokun had no

physician-patient relationship with the beneficiaries and did not see or evaluate them.

Therefore, Yerokun was not able to accurately certify that the services were medically

necessary.

Company A paid Yerokun approximately $20 for each order for DME or genetic testing

that he signed. Between March 2019 and April 2021, Company A paid Yerokun $44,860

by electronically depositing funds into a bank account [Yerokun maintained]. During

this time period, Yerokun ordered DME and genetic tests for 2,184 Medicare

beneficiaries.

5. On September 21, 2022, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Missouri accepted Dr. Yerokun’s guilty plea.

6. As of the date of the Petition, Dr. Yerokun had not been sentenced.

DISCUSSION
Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), Dr. Yerokun may respond to the order to show

cause, in writing, to address the following limited issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b)

Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the
defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.”
Dr. Yerokun does not deny that he pled guilty to one count of Conspiracy to Make False
Statements Related to Health Care Matters. Nor does he argue that he was misidentified as the
defendant in the criminal case. Rather, Dr. Yerokun argues that (1) the crime he pled guilty to is
not a crime involving moral turpitude; and (2) he requests a hearing prior to any action taken by
the Board.

Health Occ. §14-404(6)(1) mandates the automatic suspension of a physician’s medical
license when a disciplinary panel concludes that a physician was convicted of or pleads guilty to
a crime involving moral turpitude.* Under Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1), a disciplinary panel has
the obligation and discretion to determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral
turpitude for licensing and disciplinary purposes. “[I]t is settled that whatever else [moral
turpitude] may mean... a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element is a crime
involving moral turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of offenses involving
intentional dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude[.]” Jd.
at 459-60. “[IJn the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the
concept of moral turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians, 162
Md. App. 457, 483 (2005).

The Court of Appeals has also established that “[a] guilty plea is an admission of conduct
that constitutes all the elements of a formal criminal charge” and that [b]y entering a plea of
guilty, the accused is not simply stating that he did the discrete acts described in the indictment;
he is admitting guilt of a substantive crime.” Metheny v. State, 359 Md. 576, 599 (2000)
(internal citations and quotation marks omitted). A guilty plea “also serves asa stipulation that

4 At the time the Petition was filed, Dr. Yerokun had not been sentenced, which is why the Panel proceeded under
Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1) instead of Health Occ. §14-404(b)(2).

5
no proof by the prosecution need [be] advanced. . . . It supplies both evidence and verdict, [thus]
ending [the] controversy.” Jd.

Dr. Yerokun’s Crimes Involved Moral Turpitude.

Dr. Yerokun argues that the crime he pled guilty to is not a crime involving moral
turpitude because it did not involve the prescribing of controlled substances or impersonating
another. Dr. Yerokun asserts that he was naive and he relied on the Company’s assurances that
he did not need to contact the patients or conduct a more thorough examination. Dr. Yerokun
contends that his crime does not rise to the level of a crime involving moral turpitude because the
Company was the mastermind behind the scheme to defraud Medicare and Medicaid and he had
a limited role in the operation.

“Determining whether an individual has been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude ‘necessarily begins with an examination of the criminal statute itself.” Burke v.
Maryland Bd. of Physicians, 250 Md. App. 334, 348, cert. denied, Burke v. Md. Bd. of
Physicians, 475 Md. 705 (2021) (quoting Attorney Grievance Comm’n of Md. v. Walman, 280
Md. 453, 460 (1977)). The language of the statute that Dr. Yerokun pled guilty to, 18 U.S.C. §
37], is:

If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the

United States, or to defraud the United States, or any agency thereof in any

manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such persons do any act to effect

the object of the conspiracy, each shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not

more than five years, or both.

Read together with the elements of the crime enumerated in the plea agreement, an intent to
defraud is an essential element of the crime that Dr. Yerokun pled guilty to. A “significant

characteristic of conspiracy to commit a crime is that the defendant, to be found guilty of

conspiracy, must have a specific intent to commit the offense which is the object of the

 
conspiracy.” Alston v, State, 414 Md. 92, 114-15 (2010). Accordingly, through Dr. Yerokun’s
conspiracy, he possessed the specific intent to knowingly defraud the U.S. Government, which
constitutes a crime involving moral turpitude per se. Based on the analysis of the elements of the
crime to which he pled guilty, Dr. Yerokun’s level of culpability is irrelevant.

In addition to the elements of the crime, the facts in support of the guilty plea also
establish that Dr. Yerokun’s crime involved moral turpitude. In considering the facts of the case,
the relevant consideration is whether the crime “was accompanied by a fraudulent or dishonest
intent.” Walman, 280 Md. at 462. In pleading guilty, Dr. Yerokun admitted that he knowingly
and willfully made false and fraudulent statements and documents by certifying medical
necessity for genetic medical testing or DME. Dr. Yerokun admitted that he never saw the
patients and, for most of the patients, spent less than a minute between when he accessed the
patient’s information through the electronic portal and when he signed the order for DME or
genetic testing. Dr. Yerokun also admitted to accepting money in exchange for each order for
DME or genetic testing that he signed even though he was not able to accurately certify that the
services were medically necessary. In doing so, Dr. Yerokun submitted fraudulent health care
claims to the government for purposes of his own personal gain. Walman, 280 Md. at 459-60.
Therefore, the facts of this case also establish that Dr. Yerokun pled guilty to a crime involving
moral turpitude.

Request for a Hearing.

Dr. Yerokun argues that “[a]t a minimum, he should be afforded a hearing before any
action is taken because his guilty plea does not involve a fact-pattern and crime of moral
turpitude.” As discussed above, the Panel finds that Dr. Yerokun did plead guilty to a crime

involving moral turpitude based on the elements of the crime and the facts in support of the

 
guilty plea. In enacting Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1), the Maryland General Assembly has
authorized the mandatory suspension of a license without the need for a hearing for crimes
involving moral turpitude prior to sentencing or during the pendency of any appellate
proceedings. The Court of Appeals in Felsenberg determined that “[t}he intent of the Legislature
in directing summary treatment of a charge based on the conviction of a crime involving moral
turpitude is clear.” 35] Md. at 304.

In this case, the State appropriately initiated suspension procedures under Health Occ. §
14-404(b)(1). Unlike cases charged under Health Occ. § 14-404(a), where a licensee has the
right to an evidentiary hearing and the opportunity to appear for a settlement conference, there is
no statutory or regulatory right to a hearing for cases charged under Health Occ. § 14-404(b).
Rather, the decision to grant a hearing is discretionary based on the existence of genuine issues
of material fact or law as determined by the disciplinary panel. COMAR 10.32.02.07E(3). The
Felsenberg Court explained, “when the charge rests solely upon the conviction, there is no need
to inquire into the underlying conduct” and that the question of “[w]hether the crime is one
involving moral turpitude is an issue which ordinarily may be resolved without the need for
evidence or fact-finding.” 351 Md. at 303. Dr. Yerokun’s “guilty plea served as a means of
providing for an expedited and summary disposition by the Board.” Burke, 250 Md. App. at
359. .

The determination of whether the crime, in this case, involved moral turpitude is a
question of law, which does not require an evidentiary hearing or consideration of any facts
beyond the elements of the conviction itself. Accordingly, Dr. Yerokun’s request for a hearing is

denied.

 

 
CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the above-discussion, Panel A concludes that Dr. Yerokun’s guilty plea and
conviction for Conspiracy to Make False Statements Related to Health Care Matters, 18 U.S.C. §
371, is a crime involving moral turpitude. As a result, Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1) requires Panel
A to order the suspension of Dr. Yerokun’s license.

ORDER

It is, by Board Disciplinary Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the license of Oluwatobi A. Yerokun, M.D., license number D90044, to
practice medicine in Maryland is SUSPENDED, as mandated by Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1);
and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Yerokun’s request for a hearing is denied; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 1-
607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On Fil
nelialoon ignature On File
Date ! Christine A. Farrelfy, Ex foie]
Maryland State Board of Physicians
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Yerokun has the right to seek
judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review. shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover
letter accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any

petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act,

 
Mp. CODE ANN., STATE Gov’T § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of
Procedure.
if Dr. Yerokun files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition for judicial review should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the
following address:
Stacey Darin, Assistant Attorney General
Office of the Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

 
