IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

FARHAAD RIYAZ, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D90145 * Case Number: 2222-0091
* * k * * * * * x * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER
PROCEDURAL HISTORY

Farhaad Riyaz, M.D., was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on August 11, 2020, under license number D90145, through the Interstate Medical
Licensure Compact. On December 13, 2021, in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia, Alexandria Division, Case Number 1:21-cr-00264-LMB, Dr. Riyaz
was charged with one count of Mail Fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1341. On December 13,
2021, Dr. Riyaz pled guilty to the sole count of Mail Fraud. On March 22, 2022, the Court
sentenced Dr. Riyaz to one day of incarceration followed by three years of supervised
probation, with the first six months under house arrest. Dr. Riyaz was also ordered to perform
200 hours of community service, pay a fine of $20,000 and pay restitution in the amount of
$312,964.38.

On May 26, 2022, the Office of the Attorney General filed with the Maryland Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) a petition to revoke Dr. Riyaz’s license to medicine (“the Petition”) and
a proposed. show cause order pursuant to section 14-404(b)({2) of the Maryland Medical Practice

Act. The statute provides:

"On May 3, 2022, the Board issued an order of suspension suspending Dr. Riyaz’s medical license for 90 days
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-3A-01 §§ 10(d), 24(c) and Interstate Medical Licensure Compact Rule
6.5g, after receiving notice from the Interstate Medical Licensure Compact that disciplinary action had been taken
by the Colorado Medical Board, the Arizona Medical Board, and the Alabama Medical Licensure Commission.
qd) On the filing of certified docket entries with the Board by the Office of the
Attorney General, a disciplinary panel shall order the suspension of a
license if the licensee is convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere
with respect to a crime involving moral turpitude, whether or not any
appeal or other proceeding is pending to have the conviction or plea set
aside.

(2) After completion of the appellate process if the conviction has not been
reversed or the plea has not been set aside with respect to a crime
involving moral turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation
of a license on the certification by the Office of the Attorney General.

Md. Code Ann., Health Occupations Article (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(b) (2021 Repl. Vol.).
Attached to the Petition were copies of the criminal information, plea agreement, statement of
facts, certified docket entries, and judgment.

On June 27, 2022, Dr. Riyaz filed a response to the Petition and show cause order, Dr.
Riyaz stated that he was happy to meet with the Board to discuss the circumstances further”

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel A issues this Final
Decision and Order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1).

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following:

1. Farhaad Riyaz, M.D., was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on August 11, 2020, under license number D90145, through the Interstate
Medical Licensure Compact.

2. On December 13, 2021, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia, Alexandria Division, Case Number 1:21-cr-00264-LMB, Dr. Riyaz was
charged with one count of Mail Fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1341.° On
December 13, 2021, Dr. Riyaz pled guilty to the sole count of Mail Fraud.

? To the extent that Dr. Riyaz’s offer could be interpreted as a request for a hearing, the Panel, in its discretion,
denies Dr. Riyaz’s request. COMAR 10,32.02.07E(3)

> The statute provides:

Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining
money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, or to
sell, dispose of, loan, exchange, alter, give away, distribute, supply, or furnish or procure for
unlawful use any counterfeit or spurious coin, obligation, security, or other article, or anything

2
3. The statement of facts that formed the basis of the guilty plea included the following:

From in or about March 2017 through in or about June 2020, in the
Eastern District of Virginia and elsewhere, the defendant, FARHAAD
RIYAZ, devised, knowingly intended to devise, and executed and attempted
to execute, a scheme and artifice to defraud Amazon and its on-line retailers,
and to obtain money and property by means of materially false and fraudulent
pretenses, representations, and promises, by making misrepresentations
concerning, among other things, the delivery of the products he purchased, the
condition of the products he purchased, and would at various times return
substitute products of substantially lower value than the items he had
purchased from the on-line retailer and had retained, while concealing the
material fact from the on-line retailer that he had retained the original, high-
end product.

To execute the scheme and attempt to execute it, RIYAZ would
frequently cause products to be shipped by private and commercial interstate
carriers, such as UPS and Amazon itself, RIYAZ would also cause inferior or
materially less expensive substitute products to be shipped back to Amazon
and its third-party resellers via UPS, as part of his scheme to defraud,
RIYAZ’s actions violated Title 18, United States Code, Section 1341, Mail
Fraud.

Defendant RIYAZ would purchase high-end products through
Amazon and its third-party retailers, who would then mail the products to
RIYAZ at one of his delivery addresses, including addresses in the Eastern
District of Virginia. These addresses included RIYAZ’s residence, or another
designated address affiliated with RIYAZ.

After the product arrived, RIYAZ would initiate the return process
with Amazon by claiming the products arrived late, never arrived at all,
arrived only in part, were defective, or some other allowable reason under
Amazon’s return policies.

Amazon would refund the purchase price to RIYAZ, but RIYAZ
would fraudulently retain the high-end product. RIYAZ would return to the
on-line retailer a much less expensive or inferior product that appeared to
resemble the high-end product that RIYAZ had retained. For instance, RIYAZ

 

represented to be or intimated or held out to be such counterfeit or spurious article, for the purpose
of executing such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, places in any post office or authorized
depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by the Postal
Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered
by any private or commercial interstate carrier, or takes or receives therefrom, any such matter or
thing, or knowingly causes to be delivered by mail or such carrier according to the direction
thereon, or at the place at which it is directed to be delivered by the person to whom it is
addressed, any such matter or thing, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 20
years, or both.
would purchase rare or limited-edition guitars for thousands of dollars each
and return an item similar in shape or color, but that cost substantially less.

2 ae a

Altogether, as a result of the scheme, RIYAZ caused Amazon losses of
over $250,000, and obtained property with a value over $250,000.

4, Dr. Riyaz further agreed:

RIYAZ has read the allegations in the Criminal Information in this
case and agrees that they are all true and correct and would be proven to a jury
beyond a reasonable doubt.

This statement of facts includes those facts necessary to support the
plea agreement between the defendant and the United States. It does not
include each and every fact known to the defendant or to the United States,
and it is not intended to be a full enumeration of all the facts surrounding the
defendant’s case.

The actions of the defendant, as recounted above, were in all respects
knowing and deliberate, and were not committed by mistake, accident, or
other innocent reason.

5. On March 22, 2022, the Court sentenced Dr. Riyaz to one day of incarceration
followed by three years of supervised probation, with the first six months under house
arrest. Dr. Riyaz was also ordered to perform 200 hours of community service, pay a
fine of $20,000 and pay restitution in the amount of $312,964.38.

6. Dr. Riyaz did not appeal his conviction within the time prescribed by law and the
guilty plea and conviction have not been set aside.

DISCUSSION
Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), Dr. Riyaz had the opportunity to respond to the
order to show cause, in writing, to address the following limited issues: “(a) Lack of conviction
or plea; (b) Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent
with the defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than
mitigation.” In his response, Dr. Riyaz admits that he pled guilty to one count of Mail Fraud. He

states that from 2014 until 2017 he had disputes with Amazon regarding items that he purchased
but never received. He explained that rather than continue his attempts to resolve the problem, he
engaged in a vendetta against Amazon through the actions described in the plea agreement. Dr.
Riyaz claims that he has since sought treatment for his mental health condition and has paid
restitution in full. Dr. Riyaz argues that the crime he pled guilty to is not a crime involving moral
turpitude and asks the Board to refrain from revoking his license.

Under Health Occ. §14-404(b)(2), a disciplinary panel has the obligation and discretion
to determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral turpitude for licensing and
disciplinary purposes, “[I]t is settled that whatever else [moral turpitude] may mean . . . a crime
in which an intent to defraud is an essential element is a crime involving moral turpitude. It is
also settled that the related group of offenses involving intentional dishonesty for purposes of
personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude[.]” Attorney Grievance Comm'n of Md. v.
Walman, 280 Md. 453, 459-60 (1977). “[I]n the context of a licensing board’s review of the
conduct of its licensee, the concept of moral turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State
Bad. Of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 483 (2005).

“Determining whether an individual has been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude ‘necessarily begins with an examination of the criminal statute itself.” Burke v.
Maryland Bd. of Physicians, 250 Md. App. 334, 348 (2021) (quoting Walman, 280 Mad. at 460)).
“If the criminal statute does not establish moral turpitude on its face, then the analysis ‘hinges on
the facts present in the individual case at hand.” Jd. (quoting Walman, 280 Md. at 460)).
Maryland appellate courts have repeatedly held that if dishonesty, fraud, or intent to deceive is
an essential element of a statute under which a defendant is convicted, the crime involves moral
turpitude as a matter of law. See Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Felsenberg, 351 Md.

288, 295 (1998) (crimes involving fraud are crimes involving moral turpitude); Attorney
Grievance Comm’n v. Klauber, 289 Md. 446, 457-59, cert. denied, 451 U.S. 1018 (1981) (the
term “moral turpitude” connotes a fraudulent or dishonest intent); Walman, 280 Md, at 459-60;
Oltman, 162 Md. App. at 485-87. The statutory text is clear that fraud is an essential element of
Mail Fraud, the crime that Dr. Riyaz pled guilty to. In pleading guilty, Dr. Riyaz admitted to
knowingly and willfully having devised or intended to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud
or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses. Therefore, the
crime of Mail Fraud, based on the elements of the crime alone, involves moral turpitude per se.

Dr. Riyaz argues that his crime did not involve moral turpitude because “Tt]here was no
personal gain — no item improperly obtained was used, sold, or displayed ostentatiously.” He
contends that the “items were hoarded as a result of mental illness” and that “[m]ental illness is
not moral illness.” First, Dr. Riyaz’s claim that there was no personal gain contradicts the facts
that he admitted to as part of his guilty plea. Dr. Riyaz admitted that he caused Amazon losses of
over $250,000 and obtained property of over $250,000. Accordingly, the facts underlying Dr.
Riyaz’s guilty plea establish that his crime did involve intentional dishonesty for purposes of
personal gain, and therefore, also establish moral turpitude based on the facts of the case.
Oltman, 162 Md. App. at 486. Dr. Riyaz further claims that his professed mental illness is now
under control and seeks forgiveness from the Panel.

Pursuant to the Board’s regulations, however, the Panel is not permitted to consider any
mitigating factors. COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2)(d). Accordingly, the Panel is legally required to
base its decision solely on the elements of the crime and the facts supporting the guilty plea. Id
The Court of Appeals in Felsenberg confirmed that the intent of the statute is to “direct{]
summary treatment of a charge based on the conviction of a crime of moral turpitude.”

Felsenberg, 351 Md. at 288. Second, regardless of the underlying facts of the case and whether
there was any personal gain, as discussed above, the crime of Mail Fraud is a crime involving
moral turpitude based on the elements of the crime alone.

Upon determining that a licensee has been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude, Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(2) requires a disciplinary panel to order the revocation of a
license after the appellate proceedings have been completed.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the above-discussion, Panel A concludes that Dr. Riyaz’s conviction for Mail
Fraud is a crime involving moral turpitude. As a result, Health Occ.’ § 14-404(b)(2) requires
Panel A to order the revocation of Dr. Riyaz’s license.

ORDER

It is, by Board Disciplinary Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the May 3, 2022 Order for Suspension of
License to Practice Medicine is terminated as moot; and it is further

ORDERED that the license of Farhaad Riyaz, M.D., license number D90145, to practice
medicine in Maryland is REVOKED, as mandated by Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(2); and it is
further

ORDERED that this isa PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. § 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File
07/24 [Zo2zz
Date ‘Christine A. eS Director [)
Maryland State Board of Physicians
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Riyaz has the right to seek judicial
review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any
petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act,
Mb. CoDE ANN., STATE GOV’T § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of
Procedure.

If Dr. Riyaz files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition for judicial review should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the

following address and emailed to Stacey.darin@maryland.gov:
Stacey Darin, Assistant Attorney General
Office of the Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
