IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JULIA E. OLSON, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D90487 * Case Number: 2223-0105B

* * * x * * * & * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of JULIA E. OLSON, M.D.
(the “Respondent”), License Number D90487, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md Code Ann., State Gov’t
(“State Gov't”) §10-266(c)(2) (2022 Repl. Vol.) and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”)
10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires
emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by, and made known to and available to
Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:!

’ The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the basis of Panel B’s action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent
a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
Panel B is summarily suspending the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
after a Board investigation determined that she has a health condition that affects her ability

to practice medicine safely.

I. BACKGROUND
L, The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
November 2, 2020, under License Number D90487. The Respondent’s license is scheduled
to expire on September 30, 2023.
2. The Respondent is Board-Certified in Anesthesiology.
3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent practiced as an anesthesiologist
at a health care facility (the “Facility”)? in Maryland.
Il. THE COMPLAINT
4, On or about March 28, 2023, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report?
(the “Report”) stating that “on March 20, 2023, [the Respondent] was delivering general
anesthesia to a patient in the [Facility’s] operating room” when she “collapsed to the floor,
and was found to be unconscious and cyanosed.”! The Respondent requested and was

granted a leave of absence from the Facility.

2To maintain confidentiality, the names of healthcare facilities and individuals will not be identified in this
document. The Respondent may obtain the names of the health care facilities, individuals, and medications
referenced herein by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

3 See Health Occ. § 14-413.

4 “Cyanosis” - a bluish or purplish discoloration (as of skin) due to deficient oxygenation of the blood
Merriam-Webster.com Medical Dictionary, Merriam-Webster.
Il. BOARD INVESTIGATION

5. The Board initiated an investigation based on the Report from the Facility.
As a part of the investigation, Board staff interviewed witnesses and obtained the
Respondent’s medical records.

Nurse A

6. On May 3, 2023, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of a
registered nurse (“Nurse A”) who directly observed the Respondent in the operating room
on March 20, 2023.

7. Nurse A stated that she walked into the operating room at approximately
11:00am to relieve another nurse for her lunch break. While Nurse A and the Respondent
were talking, the Respondent lifted up a bottle of Versed and asked Nurse A io look at a
vial to confirm that it was empty. Nurse A confirmed that the vial was empty and the
Respondent asked Nurse A to waste® the bottle with her so that the Respondent could pull
out another vial to provide to the patient before they woke up. The Respondent properly
completed the waste with Nurse A. Approximately twenty minutes later, Nurse A heard a
loud crash and the Respondent was found unconscious on the floor of the operating room.

8. Nurse A further reported that the Respondent was not breathing but did have

a pulse. The physicians and staff in the operating room at the time were able to revive the

5 Nurse A explained that a waste occurs when there is medication leftover and it must be documented in
the Cactus disposal system that is attached to the Pyxis. The medication is to be deposited into the Cactus
system and the clinician is to dispose of the syringe, vial, needle, etc. in front of the nurse who then confirms
the waste electronically with a fingerprint in the Pyxis system.
Respondent. Nurse A then noticed a syringe sticking out of the Respondent’s left sock
which was attached to tubing and an angiocath in the Respondent’s foot.

9. Nurse A asked the Respondent what the angiocath was and whether it was
used to inject the Versed that Nurse A had just “wasted” with the Respondent. The
Respondent stated that it was not the Versed but rather Propofol. Nurse A looked at the
syringe and confirmed that the substance was a cloudy white substance that is indicative of
Propofol.

10. | The Respondent was then transported to the emergency room department at
the Facility for an evaluation.

Locker Search

11. Board staff also conducted an under-oath interview of a senior nursing
director (“Senior Nurse”) who deals with issues regarding the medical staff at the Facility
and the director of nursing at the Facility (“Nurse Director”).

12. The Senior Nurse and Nurse Director stated that as a result of the
Respondent’s collapse in the operating room and subsequent admission to diverting
medication, a search of the Respondent’s locker was initiated to determine if the
Respondent had any additional narcotics or illegal substances in her possession. During the
search, two vials of a rocuronium reversal were found along with a tube of lidocaine
hydrochloride jelly.

13. The Respondent also provided verbal consent to allow the Senior Nurse and

Facility staff to look inside her purse where two packaged blunt tip needles were located.
Physician Supervisor

14. On May 17, 2023, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of a
physician (“Physician Supervisor”) who deals with issues regarding the medical staff at the
Facility.

15. The Physician Supervisor met with the Respondent. The Respondent
admitted that she had been using controlled dangerous substances for three to four months
and admitted to diverting the medication. The Respondent specifically admitted to using
Dilaudid, Fentanyl, Versed and Propofol. The Respondent stated that she would provide
the patient with what was needed and save the remaining medication in a clean syringe and
use it at a later time. The Respondent would then inject saline in the syringe to make it
appear that the medication was being properly discarded pursuant to the proper waste
procedures. |

16. The Respondent submitted a one-year leave of absence from the Facility.
Respondent’s Admission

17. The Board notified the Respondent of its investigation by letter dated April
26, 2023 and directed her to provide a written response.

18. By letter dated May 11, 2023, the Respondent, through counsel, provided a
written response to the Board.

19. In the response, the Respondent admits that “when she collapsed during a
procedure on March 20, 2023, she was found with a syringe and IV catheter attached to
her foot.” The Respondent “acknowledges and understands that there is no excuse for such

behavior - especially while providing patient care.”
CONCLUSION OF LAW

 

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, and that
pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent’s

license is summarily suspended.

ORDER
IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by State Gov’t. §10-
226(c)(2)(2021 Repl. Vol.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and
it is further

ORDERED that, during the course of the summary suspension, the Respondent
shall not practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a post
deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, June
28, 2023, at 11:30 a.m. at the Board’s offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel B, the
Respondent, is dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10) days,

an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request, before
an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings, Administrative
Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and it is further
ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel B immediately in accordance with Health Oce. § 14-407(a)(2021 Repl. Vol.); and it
is further
ORDERED that this is a disciplinary Order of Panel B, and as such, is a public
document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen Prov. §4-

333(B)(6).

Ovfis fpo23 Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly/ Exec tiv, Director (J
Maryland State Board of PhySicians
