IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JULIA E. OLSON, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D90487 * Case Number: 2223-0105 B
x * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On June 20, 2023, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”’) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged Julia E. Olson, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License
Number D90487, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.). Panel B charged the Respondent under
the following provisions of the Act:

Health Occ. § 14-404. License denial, suspension, or revocation.

(a) In general. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article;
(9) Provides professional services
(ii) While using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law

Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic
amounts or without medical indication;

(17) Makes a willful misrepresentation in treatment; [and]
(27) Sells, prescribes, gives away, or administers drugs for illegal
or illegitimate medical purposes[.]
On September 27, 2023, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for '
Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result
of this DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of
Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B makes the following findings of fact:
I. INTRODUCTION
1. On March 20, 2023, the Respondent collapsed in the operating room after
using Propofol while providing medical services to a patient. The Respondent subsequently
admitted to diverting medications to avoid detection. The Respondent diverted medication
and used it while on duty.
BACKGROUND
2. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on

November 2, 2020, under License Number D90487. The Respondent has retained
an order with the terms and conditions it determines are reasonable and appropriate, which may
include probation and probationary terms and conditions. If, after considering MPRP’s
recommendation, the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return
to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall remain in effect under the terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel finds reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order goes into effect upon the signature of the Executive
Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee signs the Consent
Order on behalf of Board Disciplinary Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity for a
hearing. If a disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a sustierial fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if a disciplinary panel
determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the
Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions, or impose further suspension of the Respondent’s medical

license with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

4 1.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File
pfieloses

Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT

I, Julia E. Olson, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

L assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
‘after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.
I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand its language and
the meaning of its terms and conditions.

[0/12/26

Signature On File

Date Julia E.,Olson, M.D.
Respondent
NOTARY
STATE OF Marg land
CITY/COUNTY OF (are

HEREBY CERTIFY that on __ this jot day of

I
Ole be , 2023, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing
State and City/County, did personally appear Julia E. Olson, M.D. and made oath in due
form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and seal.

 

Notary Public

 
 
 
 

My commission expires:

TWANA M. HUGHES
NOTARY PUBLIC
BALTIMORE COUNTY
MARYLAND
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES 09/30/2024!

 
   
     
     
continuous licensure in Maryland and her license is scheduled to expire on September 30,
2025.

3. On June 15, 2023, Panel B, through an Order for Summary Suspension of
License to Practice Medicine, summarily suspended the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine after a Board investigation determined that she has a health condition that affects
her ability to practice medicine safely.

4. The Respondent is Board Certified in Anesthesiology.

5. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent practiced as an anesthesiologist
at a health care facility (the “Facility’”)! in Maryland.

Il. THE COMPLAINT

6. On or about March 28, 2023, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report?
(the “Report”) from the Facility stating that “on March 20, 2023, [the Respondent] was
delivering general anesthesia to a patient in the [Facility’s] operating room” when she
“collapsed to the floor, and was found to be unconscious and cyanosed.”? The Respondent

requested and was granted a leave of absence from the Facility.

‘To maintain confidentiality, the names of healthcare facilities and individuals will not be
identified in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of the health care facilities,
individuals, and medications referenced herein by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

2 See Health Occ. § 14-413.

3“Cyanosis” - a bluish or purplish discoloration (as of skin) due to deficient oxygenation of the
blood Merriam-Webster.com Medical Dictionary, Merriam-Webster.

3
III. BOARD INVESTIGATION

7. The Board initiated an investigation based on the Report from the Facility.
By letter dated April 26, 2023, the Board notified the Respondent of its investigation and
directed her to address the Report in a written response. As a part of the investigation,
Board staff interviewed witnesses and obtained the Respondent’s medical records and
health records.‘
Nurse A

8. On May 3, 2023, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of a
registered nurse (“Nurse A”) who directly observed the Respondent in the operating room
on March 20, 2023.

9. Nurse A stated that she walked into the operating room at approximately
11:00 a.m. to relieve another nurse for her lunch break. While Nurse A and the Respondent
were talking, the Respondent lifted up a bottle of Versed* and asked Nurse A to look at the
vial to confirm that it was empty. The Respondent lifted the vial up and said to Nurse A,
“I’m trying to draw this up, and nothing’s coming out of it. See, the vial is empty. There is
nothing coming into the syringe.” Nurse A confirmed that the vial was empty and the

Respondent asked Nurse A to waste® the bottle with her so that the Respondent could pull

4 To maintain confidentiality, specific information in the medical records and health records,
including but not limited to evaluations and diagnosis, will not be disclosed in this document. This
information will be disclosed to the Respondent upon request.

5 Versed is a Schedule IV controlled substance. It is a benzodiazepine that is used to help you
relax before having a minor surgery, dental work, or other medical procedure.

® Nurse A explained that a “waste” occurs when there is medication leftover and it must be
documented in the Cactus disposal system that is attached to the Pyxis. The medication is to be

4
out another vial to provide to the patient before they woke up. The Respondent properly
completed the waste with Nurse A. Approximately 20 minutes later, Nurse A heard a loud
crash and found the Respondent unconscious on the floor of the operating room.

10. The Respondent was not breathing but did have a pulse. The physicians and
staff in the operating room at the time were able to revive the Respondent. Nurse A then
noticed a syringe sticking out of the Respondent’s left sock which was attached to tubing
and an angiocath in the Respondent’s foot.

11. Nurse A asked the Respondent what the angiocath was and whether it was
used to inject the Versed that Nurse A had just “wasted” with the Respondent. The
Respondent stated that it was not the Versed but rather Propofol.” Nurse A looked at the
syringe and confirmed that the substance was a cloudy white substance that has the
appearance of this medication.

12. The Respondent was then transported to the emergency room department at
the Facility for an evaluation.

13. Nurse A also stated that approximately one week prior to the event in the
operating room on March 20, 2023, the Respondent was acting “very erratic, and
strangely...very giddy initially and very hyper...which is very out of character” for the

Respondent. Then the Respondent’s mood “immediately shifted during the same surgery

deposited into the Cactus system and the clinician is to dispose of the syringe, vial, needle, etc. in
front of the nurse who then confirms the waste electronically with a fingerprint in the Pyxis system.

7 Propofol is an intravenous anesthetic used for procedural sedation, during monitored anesthesia
care, or as an induction agent for general anesthesia.

5
she was into, getting very weepy and teary and seeming very depressed all of a sudden.”
The Respondent tripped twice during the surgery, after which the Facility relieved the
Respondent from further duties that day.

Physician Supervisor

14. On May 17, 2023, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of a
physician (“Physician Supervisor”) who deals with issues regarding the medical staff at the
Facility.

15. The Physician Supervisor met with the Respondent who admitted that she
had been using controlled dangerous substances for three-to-four months and admitted to
diverting the medication. The Respondent specifically admitted to using Dilaudid’,
Fentanyl’, Versed, and Propofol. The Respondent stated that she would provide the patient
with what was needed and save the remaining medication in a clean syringe and use it at a
later time. The Respondent would then inject saline into the syringe to make it appear that
the medication was being properly discarded pursuant to the proper waste procedures.

16. The Respondent submitted a request for a one-year leave of absence from the
Facility.

17. The Physician Supervisor stated that “the week before [the March 20, 2023]

event...[the Respondent] had to be relieved because she said that her last operation was

8 Dilaudid is a Schedule II opioid analgesic drug and is indicated for moderate-to-severe pain.

® Fentanyl is a Schedule II synthetic opioid drug for use as an analgesic and anesthetic. It is
approximately 100 times more potent than morphine and 50 times more potent than heroin as an
analgesic.
super stressful and she just needed some time to collect herself.” On another occasion “on
Friday before the [March 20, 2023] event, [the Respondent] was acting kind of giddy in
the operating room...and she tripped and fell down.” The Respondent pointed to a cord on
the floor as the excuse for her fall. Later that day, the Respondent was “tearful and at the
end of her case she went home and she was complaining about...anxiety, being tearful, just
needing...some rest over the weekend.”

18. The Physician Supervisor stated, “T think it’s very clear looking back that on
both [occasions] there was probably impairment.”

Locker Search

19. Board staff also conducted an under-oath interview of a senior nursing
director (“Senior Nurse”) who deals with issues regarding the medical staff at the Facility
and the director of nursing at the Facility (“Nurse Director”).

20. The Senior Nurse and Nurse Director stated that as a result of the
Respondent’s collapse in the operating room and subsequent admission to diverting
medication, the Facility conducted a search of the Respondent's locker to determine if the
Respondent had any additional narcotics or illegal substances in her possession. The
Facility search revealed two vials of a rocuronium reversal along with a tube of lidocaine
ointment.

21. The Senior Nurse and Facility staff conducted a search of the Respondent’s

purse and found two packaged blunt tip needles.
22. The Nurse Director also stated that after the Respondent’s March 20, 2023
collapse, another nurse reported that the Respondent had fallen or tripped in the operating
room a week prior.

Respondent’s Written Response

23. By letter dated May 11, 2023, the Respondent, through counsel, provided a
written response to the Board.

24. Inthe response, the Respondent admitted that “when she collapsed during a
procedure on March 20, 2023, she was found with a syringe and IV catheter attached to
her foot.” The Respondent “acknowledges and understands that there is no excuse for such
behavior - especially while providing patient care.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B concludes that the Respondent: is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); was addicted to, or
habitually abused, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of
the Criminal Law Article, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(8); provided professional
services while using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance, as defined in § 5-101
of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or
without medical justification, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(9)(ii); made a willful
misrepresentation in treatment, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(17); and sold,
prescribed, gave away, or administered drugs for illegal or illegitimate medical purposes,

in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(27).
ORDER

It is, thus, by Board Disciplinary Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the summary suspension of the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland, initially ordered on June 15, 2023, is terminated as moot based upon
the suspension ordered under this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Respondent Julia E. Olson, M.D. is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland is
SUSPENDED for a minimum period of FIFTEEN (15) MONTHS.!° During the suspension,
the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions of suspension:

1. During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions to hold herself out to the public as a current provider of
medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

2. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial
consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

‘0 If the Respondent’s license expires while the Respondent is on suspension, the suspension period
and any conditions of suspension will be tolled.
(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals,
tules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by
the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information to MPRP. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities verbal and written
information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive
the health care records of the Respondent. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(f) if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation program
in another state, the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or condition of that
state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this Consent Order. The
Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent forms to authorize the
Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state program verbal
and written information concerning the Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is
authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug and alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall
not withdraw the release/consent; and

(g) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions including
terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order; and

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;

and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of the

suspension, the minimum period of suspension imposed by this Consent Order has passed, and the

Board receives MPRP’s recommendation on whether it is safe for the Respondent to return to the

practice of medicine, a Board disciplinary panel will determine whether the suspension is

terminated. Ifa Board disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to

the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated, and the disciplinary panel will issue

10
