Smitha Sadia. MLD.

October 26, 2022
|

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Date:

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Smitha Sadiq, M.D.

License Number: D90646

Case Number: 2222-0134B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §
14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D90646, effective immediately. 1
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in
the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, 1
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on May
11, 2022, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §§
14-404(a)(33) and (43). Specifically, Panel B alleged that I failed to complete the second
step in the renewal process for renewing my license through the Interstate Medical
Licensure Compact, and thereafter failed to cooperate with the Board’s investigation into
my failure to submit documentation in support of my renewal. A copy of the charges is
attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Smitha Sadiq, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I

acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated
as if proven.

T understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration [if applicable].

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary pane! considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Smitha Sadiq, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours, 2

Signature On File

NOTARY
STATE OF Utal

ciry/county or Up

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Oday of Dehsltiy , 2022 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Smitha Sadiq, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

KRISTA GROLL
WS Ll

Notary Public State of Utah
Notary Public }

     
  

  
 
   

    
 

  

) My Commission Expires on
dune 07, 2025
Comm, Number, 718726

My commission expires: bane

ACCEPTANCE
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 2b day of Octheh20m, I,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Smitha Sadiq, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, Execiitivd Director [
Maryland State Board of Physicians ,

 

 
Attachment |
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

SMITHA SADIQ, M.D. % MARYLAND STATE
Respondent & BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D90646 * Case Number: 2222-0134B

x * x * * * * * x x x * *

Disciplinary Panel B ("Panel B") of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby charges SMITHA SADIQ, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number
D90646, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2021 Repl. Vol.).

Panel B charges the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the
Act:

Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and
revocations — Grounds.

(a) Jn general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by
the Board or a disciplinary panel; [and]

(43) Except for the licensure process described under Subtitle 3A
of this title, violates any provision of this title, any rule or
regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law
pertaining to the practice of medicine[.]
Health Occ. § 14-316. Term and renewal of licenses; notice of change of
physician’s address.

(c) Applications for renewal.—(1) Before the license expires, the licensee
periodically may renew it for an additional term, if the licensee:

(iv) Submits to the Board:

1; A renewal application on the form the Board
requires; and

2. Satisfactory evidence of compliance with any
continuing medical education requirements set
forth under this section for license renewal.

(2) | Within 30 days after a license renewal under Section 7 of the
Interstate Medical Licensure Compact established under §
14-3A-01 of this title, a compact physician shall submit to the
Board the information required under paragraph (1)(iv) of this
subsection.

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT
Panel B bases its charges on the following facts that it has cause to believe are
true:
1. At all relevant times, the Respondent was and is a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to

practice medicine in Maryland on December 11, 2020 via the Interstate Medical

' The allegations set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with reasonable notice
of the asserted facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of
the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with
these charges.
Licensure Compact (the “IMLC”), under License Number D90646. The Respondent’s
Maryland medical license expires on September 30, 2023, subject to renewal.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in Internal Medicine.

Bs By email dated October 29, 2021, the Board notified the Respondent that
although she had reportedly completed the IMLC’s application for renewal of her
Maryland medical license and submitted the required renewal fees, she failed to complete
step two of the process for renewing her medical license, which involved completing and
submitting the Board’s Application for License Renewal form. The email advised the
Respondent that failure to complete the Application for License Renewal form by
November 12, 2021, would result in the matter being referred to the Board’s Compliance
Division for investigation. The Board provided contact information if she had any
questions about the issues raised in the email. The Respondent did not respond to this
email or complete her Board license renewal application at that time.

4. By letter dated November 3, 2021, the Board again notified the Respondent
that although she had reportedly completed the IMLC’s application for renewal of her
Maryland medical license and submitted the required renewal fees, she failed to complete
step two of the process for renewing her Maryland medical license, which involved
completing and submitting the Board’s Application for License Renewal form. The
email advised the Respondent that failure to complete the Application for License
Renewal form by November 12, 2021, would result in the matter being referred to the
Board’s Compliance Division for investigation. The Board provided contact information

if she had any questions about the issues raised in the email. The Respondent did not

3
respond to this letter and did not complete her Board license renewal application at that
time.

5. By letter dated November 17, 2021, the Board notified the Respondent that
she had not submitted her Application for Renewal form and as a result, it had opened a
preliminary investigation for potential discipline “based upon [her] failure to complete
the Maryland license renewal process.” The Respondent did not respond to the letter and
did not complete her Board license renewal application at that time.

6. On November 22, 2021, the Respondent entered the Board’s licensure
renewal portal and started filling out the renewal application but did not complete it.

7. By letter dated December 21, 2021, the Board again notified the
Respondent that she failed to complete the process for renewing her license. The Board
informed the Respondent that her failure to renew her Maryland license on or before
December 31, 2021, may result in the issuance of public disciplinary charges against her.
The Respondent did not respond to the letter or complete her license renewal application
at that time.

8. On March 17, 2022, Board staff attempted to contact the Respondent,
calling the telephone number identified on the Respondent’s IMLC Core Data Sheet.
Board staff left a voicemail message for the Respondent, reminding her of her need to
complete her Maryland license renewal application. The Respondent did not respond to
the voicemail or complete her license renewal application at that time.

9. On March 22, 2022, Board staff reached the Respondent by telephone and

informed her that she had not completed her license renewal application. Board staff

4
stated that she would provide further instructions to the Respondent about completing the
application online. Board staff then sent the Respondent a follow-up email at 2:07 p.m.,
which informed the Respondent that the online portal was operational and that she had
until March 23, 2022 at 11:59 p.m. to complete the application. The Respondent then
telephoned Board staff and discussed some of the questions that were posed on the
application, but then stated that she could not finish the application at that time but would
come back to it. Board staff stressed to the Respondent the importance of completing her
application. The Respondent did not complete her license renewal application at that
time.

10. To date, the Respondent has not completed or submitted her Maryland
license renewal application.

11. | The Respondent’s actions, as described above, constitute, in whole or in
part, a violation of the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404(a):
(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a
disciplinary panel; and/or (43) Except for the licensure process described under Subtitle
3A of this title, violates any provision of this title, any rule or regulation adopted by the
Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the practice of medicine.

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, a Board disciplinary panel finds that there are grounds for
action under Health Occ. §§ 14-404(a)(33) and/or (43), the Board disciplinary panel may

impose disciplinary sanctions against the Respondent’s license in accordance with the
Board’s regulations under COMAR 10.32.02.09 and 10.32.02.10, including revocation,
suspension, reprimand, and/or probation, and may impose a fine.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION,
PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

 

A conference before Panel A, sitting as the Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter, is scheduled for Wednesday, August 24, 2022 at
9:00 a.m. at the Board’s office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The
Respondent must confirm in writing the Respondent’s intention to attend the DCCR. The
Respondent should send written confirmation of the Respondent’s intention to participate
in the DCCR to: Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, Maryland State Board of
Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature
and purpose of the DCCR is described in the attached letter to the Respondent.

If the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a pre-hearing conference and a
hearing in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101
Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in
accordance with Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
(2021 Repl. Vol.).

BRIAN E. FROSH
Attorney General of Maryland

5 bv far Letust 4. Lhe [gt

Date obert J. Gilbertf Deputy Counsel

Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation Division

Office of the Attorney General
Suite 201, 300 West Preston Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

robert. gilbert@maryland.gov

6
