IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

MARWAN WIGGINS, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D90977 * Case Number: 2222-0082 B
* * * x * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On February 18, 2022, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged MARWAN WIGGINS, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D90977, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice
Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act provide the following:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations
— Grounds.

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article;
(11) Willfully makes or files a false report in the practice of
medicine; [and]

(43) Except for the licensure process described under Subtitle 3A of
this title, violates any provision of this title, any rule or
regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law
pertaining to the practice of medicine[.]

On April 27, 2022, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Face, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:

L BACKGROUND

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
February 26, 2021, under License Number D90977. The Respondent’s license is scheduled
to expire on September 30, 2023.

2. The Respondent is also licensed to practice medicine in Florida.

3, The Respondent is not board-certified in any medical specialty and does not

have hospital privileges.
I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

Signature on F ile
Dat Marwan Wiggins, MB?

Respondent

11
NOTARY

STATE OF Elona
CITY/COUNTY OF [UK
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on __ this oath day of
aa 2022, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

 

State and City/County, Marwan Wiggins, M.D., personally appeared and made oath in due
form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and notarial seal.

Notary Public

My commission expires: (5 (al H0X9 .

   
  

 
    

YUSUF ABDULLAH
Notary Public, State of Florida
<= My comm. expires Aug. 12, 2025
Commission Number HH 164599

     
 

0;

Attezy
M8240
BS Ae

    

    

 

3
Se

     

12
4, At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was a clinical fellow in
anesthesiology at a university (the “University”) and was employed at a health care facility!
(the “Health Care Facility”) in Maryland.

5. The Respondent is currently practicing medicine in the state of Florida,

Tl. THE COMPLAINT

6.’ On or about September 30, 2021, the Board received the Respondent’s
License Renewal Application (the “Application’”).

7. In the section of the Application entitled, Character and Fitness Questions,
the Respondent was instructed to respond “YES” or “NO” to a series of questions.

8. The Respondent answered “YES” to QUESTION (5), which asks:

Has a health care facility, related health care institution,
HMO, or alternative health care system ever
investigated you or ever brought charges against you?

9. The Respondent provided the following explanation:

I was investigated for [diverting medications] that arose in the
last few months (April — August 2021) of my fellowship
training at [the Health Care Facility]. The investigation was
concluded and no charges were brought. I am currently
{receiving treatment] to address [a condition].

10. The Respondent also answered “YES” to QUESTION (10), which asks:

Do you currently have any medical condition or impairment
(including, but not limited to, substance abuse, alcohol abuse,
or a physical, mental, emotional, or nervous disorder or
medical condition) that in any way affects your ability to
practice your profession in a safe, competent, ethical and
professional manner?

1 To maintain confidentiality, the names of universities, health care facilities, programs, and individuals
will not be identified in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of the universities, health
care facilities, programs, and individuals referenced herein by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

 
11. The Respondent provided the following explanation:

Per the direction of [a program], I was evaluated [and have a
condition].

ll. BOARD INVESTIGATION

12. The Board initiated an investigation of this matter based on the affirmative
responses and disclosures the Respondent provided on his Application (the “Complaint”).

13. As part of the investigation of the Complaint, the Board subpoenaed reports
from the investigation (the “Investigative Reports”) of the Respondent and records
regarding the Respondent’s evaluation. The Board also conducted interviews with the
Respondent’s fellowship supervisor (the “Supervisor”) and the pharmacy supervisor (the
“Pharmacy Supervisor”) at the Health Care Facility.

The Investigative Reports

14. The Investigative Reports documented that an investigation found that the
Respondent falsified patient medical records at the Health Care Facility to withdraw 93
vials of ketamine’ from medication dispensing machines.

Interviews

The Supervisor

15. On or around January 28, 2022, a Board investigator interviewed the

Supervisor. In the under-oath interview, the Supervisor stated:

? Ketamine is a Schedule III controlled dangerous substance that is used primarily for induction and
maintenance of anesthesia. It is a dissociative anesthetic that has some hallucinogenic effects. It distorts
perceptions of sight and sound and makes the user feel disconnected and not in control.
His responsibilities include, but are not limited to, oversight of the
education and personal wellness of the clinical fellows.

He supervised the Respondent’s clinical fellowship. As part of the
fellowship, the Respondent participated in a rotation at the Health
Care Facility.

In 2021, he noticed changes in the Respondent, including increased
absences. Staff also reported to him that the Respondent
uncharacteristically lacked attention to detail. He later learned that the
Respondent inappropriately took ketamine from the medication
dispensing machines at the Health Care Facility, that the conduct
occurred over the course of months in 2021 and, once discovered, the
Respondent went on medical leave from the University.

On or about January 21, 2022, he received a letter from the
Respondent where, among other things, the Respondent accepted
responsibility for his actions and stated that he had sought treatment.

The Pharmacy Supervisor

16. On or around January 31, 2022, a Board investigator interviewed the

Pharmacy Supervisor. In the under-oath interview, the Pharmacy Supervisor stated:

a,

His responsibilities at the Health Care Facility include, but are not
limited to, oversight of drug management. As part of this
responsibility, he conducts audits of medication including audits of
medication dispensing machines.

In August 2021, he identified “transactions of concern” involving the
Respondent and Health Care Facility medication dispensing
machines. In response, he emailed the Respondent and requested an
explanation.

He questioned the veracity of the Respondent’s explanation and
expanded his investigation. His audits showed that the Respondent,
on numerous occasions, removed ketamine from medication
dispensing machines under patient names in the absence of medical
records documenting a patient encounter or administration of the
ketamine.
d. His investigation concluded that between approximately January and
August 2021, the Respondent diverted ketamine on numerous
occasions.
Evaluation of the Respondent
17. Due to the diversion of ketamine and reported changes in the Respondent’s
appearance and behavior, the University referred the Respondent for a consultation and
evaluation.°
18. On or around October 7, 2021, the Respondent was evaluated by a program
(the “Program”). The Program made determinations about the Respondent’s condition.*
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board concludes as a
matter of law that the Respondent: is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); is addicted to, or habitually abuses,
any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(8); willfully makes or files a false report
in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11); and except for the
licensure process described under Subtitle 3A of this title, violates any provision of this
title, any rule or regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to

the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43).

> To maintain confidentiality, the details of the consultation and evaluation will not be disclosed in this
document however the details were known to the Panel at the time the Panel voted to issue charges.

* To maintain confidentiality, the Respondent’s condition will not be disclosed in this document however
the condition was known to the Panel at the time the Panel voted to issue charges.
ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that, under this Consent Order, the Respondent’s license to practice

medicine in Maryland is SUSPENDED for a minimum of FIFTEEN (15) MONTHS

retroactive to February 14, 2022.5 During the suspension, the Respondent shall comply

with the following terms and conditions of the suspension:

(1) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:
(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule

an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant

(c)

(d)

Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with
MPRP;

the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall
fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to

authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health

>If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions

will be tolled.
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent

__ Shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a
violation of this Consent Order; :

(2) During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine in Maryland;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out
to the public as a current provider of medical services in Maryland;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care
provider in Maryland;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other
medical care facility in the State of Maryland;

(e) prescribe or dispense medications in Maryland; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active Maryland medical license;
and it is further

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension, issued on February 14, 2022,
is terminated as moot; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Consent
Order has passed and the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms
and conditions for the suspension and if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the
Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent may submit a
written petition to the disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s
license. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss

his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the

Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through
an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and
conditions it deems appropriate on the Respondent's return to practice, including, but not
limited to, probation and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the
disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice
of medicine, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel
for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may
impose any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further
ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and is further
ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before
a disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the

Respondent’s license to practice radiography in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may,
in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine
on the Respondent, and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

05 [u [2022 Signature on File
Date Christine & Fately (1)

xecutive Director / f
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT.

I, Marwan Wiggins, M.D. acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

l assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

10
