IN THE MATTER OF % BEFORE THE

ANDREW S. CRUZ, MD * MARYLAND BOARD
Respondent x OF PHYSICIANS
LICENSE NUMBER: D95396 s CASE NUMBER: 2224-0045B
* * * * * * x * * x * x
CONSENT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made between Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) and Andrew S. Cruz, MD (the “Respondent”):

WHEREAS, the Respondent is a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, initially licensed on or about August 17, 2022;

WHEREAS, the Maryland Board received information that, on or about August 16, 2023, the
Arizona Medical Board (the “Arizona Board”) prohibited the Respondent from practicing medicine in
the State of Arizona, based upon allegations that the Respondent consumed alcohol in violation of his

Stipulated Rehabilitation Agreement of March 9, 2023;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Respondent agrees that his license to practice as a physician in the
State of Maryland is hereby SUSPENDED until such time as the Respondent's ability to practice

medicine in the state of Arizona is restored/reinstated by the Arizona Board; and

The Respondent further agrees that this Agreement is a public document. See Health Occ. §§1-
607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. §4-333(b)(6).

lo lbTec= Signature On File

Date Andrew S. Cruz, MD

Signature On File
10/24/2023 ret | Christine A. Famer | i (/

 
CONSENT

I, Andrew S. Cruz, MD, acknowledge that I am aware of my right to consult with and be
represented by counsel in considering this Consent Agreement. I have chosen to proceed without
counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel is freely and voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Agreement and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments or modifications
to any condition. .

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seg. I waive this right and have
elected to sign this Consent Agreement instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Agreement as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other substantive and procedural
protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and substantive protections. I acknowledge the
legal authority and the jurisdiction of the disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and
enforce this Consent Agreement.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the Consent
Agreement as a resolution of the charges. I waive all rights to appeal this Consent Agreement.

I sign this Consent Agreement, without reservation, and fully understand the language and
meaning of its terms.

Signature On File
_lolLZ0CS
Date a Andrew S. Cruz, MD

Respondent

 
NOTARY

STATE OF \M ASSacbusils

CITY/COUNTY OF _Soffolle a
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this [ L day of Ovhebeert , 2023, before me, a Notary

Public of the State and City/County aforesaid, personally Andrew S. Cruz, MD, and made oath in due
form of law that the foregoing Consent Agreement was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and notarial seal.

oS
ry Pu
My Commission expires:_ {7 , 1 COCSS

® Sofia Laveaux-Crawford

% Notary lic
COMMONWEALTH OF *.ASSACHUSETTS |
My Commission Expires

December 29, 2028

 

             
