IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

AHMAD O. ALJAMAL, M.D. ie MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D97464 i Case Number: 2224-0016A

* * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE |
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license to practice medicine of
AHMAD O. ALJAMAL, M.D. (the “Respondent’”’), License Number D97464, in the State
of Maryland. .

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t ("State Gov't") § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol.) and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”)
10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires
emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:!

1 The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the basis of Panel A’s action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent
a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
Introduction

1. Panel A is summarily suspending the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine after a Board investigation determined that he has a health condition or has
engaged in conduct that affects his ability to practice medicine safely.

Background/Licensing Information

2. The Board issued the Respondent a license to ptactice medicine in Maryland
on May 8, 2023, under License Number D97464, which was given an expiration date of
September 30, 2024. The Respondent also has medical licenses in Michigan (issued June
24, 2021) and Nevada (issued May 5, 2023).

3 The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine (2021).

4. At all relevant times, the Respondent resided in Nevada and was employed
by a health care practice (the “Practice”)? that provides telemedicine services to patients in
Maryland. The Practice has offices in Nevada and Maryland.

Mandated 10-Day Report

5s On or about August 4, 2023, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
(the “Report”) from a physician (the “Physician”) who owns and operates the Practice. —

6. The Physician stated that on or about July 25, 2023, the Practice “was forced

to terminate Dr. Aljamal’s employment for cause due to serious concerns with Dr.

? For confidentiality reasons, the identity of the Practice or any other individuals referenced herein, will not
be disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain this information from the Board.
Aljamal’s ability to practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety because of Dr.
Aljamal’s abuse of illicit drugs (methamphetamine).”

7. The Physician further stated that in addition to the Practice’s legal obligation
‘to file the Report, it was doing so (a) to ensure that the Respondent does not cause harm to
the public while his substance abuse problem persists; and (b) in hopes that the Board can
assist with getting the Respondent the professional assistance he needs to address his
substance abuse issue.

Board Investigation

8. After reviewing the above Report, the Board initiated an investigation of the
Respondent. As part of its investigation, the Board, inter alia, obtained documentary
information from the Practice; interviewed the Physician, the Practice’s office manager and
the Practice’s Chief Executive Officer; reviewed the Respondent’s written response to the
allegations; and reviewed toxicology screening results obtained from the Practice.

9. The Board’s investigation determined that the Practice hired the Respondent
in or around March 2023 to be its lead physician at the Practice’s Nevada office. The
Respondent’s services included providing in-office medical care to patients in the
Practice’s Nevada office and conducting telemedicine consultations/services for patients
in other states, including Maryland.

10. The Respondent began working for the Practice on or about June 6, 2023.
Within weeks of the Respondent’s starting work, supervisory personnel at the Practice
noted a “precipitous” change in the Respondent’s personality and behavior. The

Respondent’s appearance became unkempt, his personality changed, he reported late to

3
work and began missing telemedicine appointments. After missing appointments, fire
Respondent failed to respond to Practice staff’s attempts to reach him by telephone or text.
Due to lateness issues, the Practice required the Respondent to report in-person to the
Practice’s office. The Respondent began missing 9:00 a.m. work times, however. When
explaining one of his latenesses, the Respondent claimed that he was “up all night” tending
to a sick puppy, which caused him to oversleep. .

11. The Practice’s office manager observed that the Respondent was reporting to
work in a disheveled condition and counseled him on his appearance, and on two occasions
made him get his hair cut. On one occasion, the Respondent failed to attend an important
educational meeting that was convened for his training, despite being reminded previously
of the meeting on several occasions.

12. The Practice issued the Respondent a written warning regarding his
behavioral issues. The memorandum states:

REASONS FOR WRITTEN WARNING

The reasons for this warning are the following: TARDINESS, FAILURE
TO BE AVAILABLE FOR DUTY WHEN SCHEDULED.

DETAILS OF ACTIONS

Dr. Aljamal has been FREQUENTLY late to shadow [the Physician]
electronically. Dr. Aljamal has been routinely tardy for his own clinical
duties; and on one occasion missed an electronic follow up appointment
because “he slept right through it.” Dr. Aljamal does not respond to text
messages or calls from the nurses in a timely manner when on duty.

CORRECTIVE ACTION

Effective immediately, Dr. Aljamal must be on site for the duration‘of his ©
on-duty schedule, except for breaks and lunch time. Failure to be present

4
and on time for duty will result in further disciplinary action including
termination of employment.

13. On Friday, July 14, 2023, the Practice had a gathering at the CEO’s
residence, which the Respondent attended. The Practice CEO reported concerns about the
Respondent’s behavior during the gathering and suspected that he was under the influence
of a stimulant. The Practice CEO observed the Respondent having “spastic” or
“psychomotor impairment, was “babbling” and had “pressed speech,” and made
“paranoid” statements about the Practice nursing staffs “conspiring against him.” At one
point during the gathering, the Practice CEO escorted the Respondent to the Respondent’s
car. When the Respondent opened his car door, the Practice CEO noted what he believed
to be the smell of an illicit substance.

14. After the gathering, the Practice decided to confront the Respondent about
his lateness, behavioral issues and possible substance abuse. The Practice CEO and office
manager asked the Respondent to meet with them at a neutral location on Monday, July
17, 2023, at 7:00 a.m., so that they could address their concerns about his conduct. The
Respondent arrived approximately 25 minutes late for the meeting, however.

15. The Respondent drove up to the meeting but had extreme difficulty in
parking his vehicle, despite there being ample spaces in the parking lot. When the
Respondent arrived, he was disheveled in appearance. The Practice CEO discussed
concerns about the Respondent’s attendance and poor grooming, and asked the Respondent
to undergo toxicology screening. When the Practice CEO asked the Respondent to undergo

toxicology screening, the Respondent placed his face in his hands and started sobbing. The

5
Practice’s office manager observed that the Respondent was disheveled, sleepy and was
“itching” and “picking” at his skin during the meeting.

16. After the meeting, the Respondent reported to the Practice’s office and acted
in an erratic manner, which raised concerns among Practice staff. The Practice’s office
manager then escorted the Respondent to a testing facility for toxicology testing. The
Respondent tested positive for methamphetamine, a Schedule II controlled dangerous
substance.

17. By email dated July 19, 2023, the Practice terminated the Respondent’s
employment.

18. On or about August 2, 2023, three of the Respondent’s family members
contacted the Physician and informed him that they were unable to get in contact with the
Respondent.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, and that
pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's
license is summarily suspended.

ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. § 10-
226(c)(2)(2021 Repl. Vol.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license to

practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and

6
it is further

ORDERED that, during the course of the summary suspension, the Respondent
shall not practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a post-
deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday,
November 1, 2023, at 11:00 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel A immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407(b)(2021 Repl. Vol.); and
it is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a public document. See

‘Health Oce. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

fofitlos Signature On File

Date Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
