IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

HADI M. RASSAEL, D.O. * STATE BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Respondent. * Case No.: 7715-0052

License No.: H51091 *

* * & & & * x * * * * * &

ORDER ON PETITION FOR TERMINATION OF SUSPENSION

On October 8, 2014, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged Respondent, Hadi M. Rassael, D.O. with engaging in immoral and
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, based on allegations of sexual misconduct
from multiple patients and an allegation that he borrowed $180,000 in personal loans from one
patient, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii). Dr. Rassael was
also charged with performing cosmetic surgical procedures in an unaccredited facility, in
violation of § 14-404(a)(41)(i) and (ii), and with violating probationary terms and conditions of a
previous Consent Order dated July 28, 2011.

On January 14, 2015, in order to resolve the charges, Dr. Rassael entered into a Consent
Order with Disciplinary Panel B in which the panel concluded that Dr. Rassael had violated
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), § 14-404(a)(41)(i) and (ii), and the probationary terms and
conditions of his July 2011 Consent Order. As a sanction, Disciplinary Panel B suspended Dr.
Rassael’s license to practice medicine in Maryland for a minimum of eighteen (18) months. Dr.
Rassael was ordered to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”)
while he was under suspension, and to comply with any evaluation and treatment
recommendations of the MPRP. The Consent Order also provided that Dr. Rassael would be

eligible to petition for termination of the suspension only upon full and satisfactory compliance
with all of MPRP’s evaluation and treatment recommendations, and the MPRP’s determination
that he was fit to resume clinical practice. In addition, the Consent Order provided that upon
termination of the suspension by Disciplinary Panel B, Dr. Rassael be placed on probation for a
minimum of three years subject to terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the MPRP and
the panel.

On April 4, 2016, the MPRP provided a written update to the panel on Dr. Rassael’s
ongoing participation in and adherence to his MPRP Agreement and Plan. The MPRP deferred to
the panel’s judgment on whether Dr. Rassael’s license should be reinstated. The MPRP submitted
a list of recommended terms and conditions in the event that the panel determined to terminate
the suspension and reinstate Dr. Rassael’s medical license.

On April 29, 2016, Dr. Rassael filed a written Petition for Termination of Suspension and
appeared before Disciplinary Panel B on May 25, 2016, for consideration of the petition.

Based on Disciplinary Panel B’s review of the documents submitted by the MPRP for the
panel’s consideration, the panel will not terminate Dr. Rassael’s suspension at this time. It is
hereby:

ORDERED that Dr. Rassael’s suspension shall continue until Disciplinary Panel B:

a. Approves a licensed physician to supervise and monitor the implementation of terms and
conditions recommended by the MPRP, as detailed on page 4 of this Order; and

b. Approves Dr. Rassael’s individual practice guidelines, protection and organizational plans
with respect to office changes, and his professional and personal plans for maintaining
appropriate, strict, professional boundaries with patients and staff. Dr. Rassael shall
submit all plans and individual practice guidelines to the MPRP for MPRP approval prior
to submitting them to the panel for panel approval; and it is further

ORDERED that successful compliance with the first condition requires that:
2
a. As part of the approval process, Dr. Rassael shall submit to Disciplinary Panel B the
name and professional credentials of a Maryland licensed physician that he proposes
to conduct the supervision and monitoring required by the panel;

b. Dr. Rassael shall provide the panel-approved supervising physician with a copy of the
charging document, Consent Order, MPRP documents, and whatever other written
materials the panel deems relevant;

c. The supervising physician shall notify the panel in writing of his/her acceptance of
the supervisory and monitoring role of the terms and conditions deemed applicable by
the MPRP. Supervision and monitoring of the implementation of the MPRP terms
and conditions shall commence following panel approval and the termination of
suspension by the panel; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Rassael obtains panel approval of a licensed physician supervisor,

and his practice guidelines, boundary protection plans and organizational plan for office changes,
Dr. Rassael may submit a written petition to the panel requesting termination of his suspension.
After consideration of the petition and panel approval of the supervisor, practice guidelines and
boundary protection and organizational plans, Dr. Rassael’s suspension may be administratively
terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that after the suspension is terminated, Dr. Rassael shall be placed on

PROBATION for a minimum period of THREE (3) YEARS! During the probationary period,
Dr. Rassael shall fully and satisfactorily comply with the following probationary terms and

conditions:

' Dr. Rassael’s license expires on September 30, 2017. If Dr. Rassael fails to renew his license before it expires, the
probation or suspension will not be terminated and the time period of probation/suspension will be tolled until his
license is reinstated. COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a). If Dr. Rassael’s license expires while his license is suspended or
while he is on probation, Dr. Rassael may not petition Panel B for termination of probation/suspension until he
applies for and meets the requirements for reinstatement. See COMAR 10.32.02.06A (4).

3
Dr. Rassael is required to have a chaperone present during all interactions with patients,
for both telephone and in-person patient encounters, with documented log-in and log-out
by a chaperone for each patient;

Dr. Rassael shall not use or employ family members as chaperones;

Dr. Rassael shall not have any contact with patients outside of care and treatment for
patients’ medical needs;

Dr. Rassael shall continue enrollment with the MPRP during the entire length of the
probationary period. Dr. Rassael shall continue his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. Dr. Rassael shall fully and timely
cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including
but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate
and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed
by MPRP;

Dr. Rassael shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the
Board and MPRP. Dr. Rassael shall sign the release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any and all
MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. Dr. Rassael shall also sign any written
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) outside entities (including all of Dr. Rassael’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Dr. Rassael and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Rassael including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol treatment records;.

Dr. Rassael shall undergo periodic polygraph examination as a clinical tool for
compliance at the discretion of the MPRP;

Dr. Rassael shall continue in the Maintenance and Accountability Seminars (“MAS-12”)
Program for twelve (12) months.

. At a minimum, Dr. Rassael shall meet with the panel-approved supervising physician
once a month for the duration of probation. The purpose of the monitoring shall be to
focus on the implementation and maintenance of the ethical and professional boundary
terms and conditions of probation outlined in a-g.

The supervising physician shall submit quarterly reports to the panel detailing Dr.
Rassael’s progress in implementing and maintaining compliance with these terms and
conditions;

The supervising physician shall immediately contact the Board if there are any concerns
or complaints regarding personal boundary issues or there are any issues in complying
with the terms and conditions of this order;
k. Dr. Rassael has sole responsibility for ensuring that the supervising physician submits the
required quarterly reports to the panel in a timely manner;

1. Disciplinary Panel B has sole authority over any changes in supervision and monitoring
and must approve and ratify any changes in supervision and monitoring or the frequency
of supervision and monitoring;
m. In the event that Dr. Rassael’s supervising physician discontinues the supervisory and
monitoring process for any reason, Dr. Rassael shall immediately notify Disciplinary
Panel B. Dr. Rassael shall be solely responsible for submitting a replacement candidate to
serve as his supervisor under the terms specified above;
n. An unsatisfactory report from the supervising physician shall constitute a violation of
probation and this Order; and it is further
ORDERED that Dr. Rassael shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 — 14-702, and all laws and regulations governing the practice
of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Board or Disciplinary Panel B determines, after notice and an
opportunity for a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings if there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, or a show cause hearing before the
Board or panel if there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, that Dr. Rassael has failed to
comply with any term or condition of probation or this Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel B
may reprimand Dr. Rassael, place Dr. Rassael on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke Dr. Rassael’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The
Board or Disciplinary Panel B may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Rassael; and it is further

ORDERED that after a minimum of three years from the date on which Dr. Rassael’s
probation begins, he may submit a written petition to the Board or designated disciplinary panel
requesting termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be

terminated through an order of the Board or designated Board panel. The Board or designated

Board panel will grant the termination if Dr. Rassael has fully and satisfactorily complied with

5
all of this Order’s probationary terms and conditions, as determined by the Board or designated
Board panel, and there are no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Rassael is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless otherwise stated in the Order, any time period prescribed in this
Order begins when the Order goes into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive
Director, who signs on behalf of Disciplinary Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.

§§ 4-101 ef seq.

 
  

 

(lp —s
(May 2b Z0(¢ (hin ~~ Ly
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Exec tive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians
