IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

KATHERINE A. ASADI, D.O. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: H54970 * Case Number: 2223-0133 A
* * * x * * * * * * * & x
CONSENT ORDER

On October 4, 2023, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged KATHERINE A. ASADI, D.O. (the “Respondent”),
License Number H54970, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2022 Supp.).

Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of Health
Oce. § 14-404:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this

subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the

quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine;

(4) _ Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;

[and]

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted
by the Board or a disciplinary panell.]
On January 10, 2024, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A finds the following:

I. Background

1, The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in
Maryland on July 1, 1999, under License Number H54970.1 The Respondent’s license
expires on September 30, 2024, subject to renewal.

2. The Respondent is not board-certified.

3. At all relevant times, the Respondent was employed at a health care practice
(the “Practice”)? in Rosedale, Maryland until on or about December 21, 2022. The
Respondent left the Practice after the Practice owner notified the Respondent that her
employment was terminated as of January 1, 2023.

Il. The Complaint

4. On or about June 22, 2023, the Board received information (the “Complaint”)

from members of the Baltimore County Police Department. The Complaint alleged that the

Respondent may be engaging in prescription fraud.

' On September 27, 2023, the Board summarily suspended the Respondent's license.
2 For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities and individuals will not be disclosed in this
Consent Order.

 
CONSENT.

I, Katherine A. Asadi, D.O., assert that I am aware of my right to consult with and
be represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any proceedings that
would otherwise result from the charges currently pending. 1 have chosen to proceed
without counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel is freely
and voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel! will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order, I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

Signature On File
'I59) 20.24
Date “ Kathefine A. Asadi, D.O.

Respondent

11
NOTARY

   
 

STATE OF Ys v

Foz iti 16

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2 TA day of

Vo a 4 2024, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

State and City/County, Katherine A. Asadi, D.O. personally appeared and made oath in

CITY/COUNTY O

due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and notarial seal.

 
 
 
 

_ ee ~
tli, —
Series, Notary Public —
SF PON "EG% a
: , & tos . —fe
2 CoMMiesion. 3 = My commission expires: (2 — [-2277
Zo, ExPines { §
% Sp, DEC. 1, 2027 AQ§
i WS
0% Port, na SS
7 coy >
TU CORN

12

 
5. The Board conducted an investigation into the Complaint which included but
was not limited to subpoenaing various prescribing, medical, and health records and
conducting under-oath interviews with the Practice owner and the Respondent (the
“Respondent’s Interview”). Based on the investigation, the Board made determinations as
detailed below.

iL. The Board Investigation

6. The Board investigation determined that the Respondent: (1) inappropriately
prescribed controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) to herself and two family members
(“Family Member A” and “Family Member B”); (2) failed to comply with two subpoenas
issued by the Board during the Board investigation; and (3) is unsafe to practice medicine
due to her health conditions.

The Respondent’s Treating Self and Family Members

7. The Respondent’s prescribing records subpoenaed and received by the Board
stated that the Respondent:

a. Prescribed Schedule II or Schedule IV CDS on 14 occasions to
Family Member A from May 30, 2022, until December 8,
2022.

b. Prescribed Schedule II or Schedule IV CDS on 10 occasions?
to Family Member B from June 3, 2022, until October 4, 2022.

c. Self-prescribed herself a Schedule II CDS on May 23, 2022.
8. During the Respondent’s Interview on August 7, 2023, the Respondent

admitted to self-prescribing and prescribing to three (3) family members, including Family

3 One of the prescriptions authorized a refill.
Member A and Family Member B.
The Respondent’s Failure to Cooperate with Board Subpoenas

9. By letter dated June 28, 2023 (the “June Letter”), sent to the Respondent’s
address of record (the “Address of Record”),4 the Board, among other things, notified the
Respondent of the Board’s investigation based on the Complaint and issued the Respondent
a subpoena (the “June Subpoena”) for medical records for specific family members and
herself to be delivered within ten business days from the date of the June Subpoena.

10. The Respondent did not comply with the June Subpoena or otherwise
respond to the June Letter and the June Letter was not returned as undeliverable.

11. By email (the “July Email”) dated July 19, 2023, sent to two different email
addresses of record® for the Respondent (the “Email Addresses of Record”), the Board
among other things, notified the Respondent of the Board's investigation based on the
Complaint and included the June Subpoena.

12. The Respondent did not respond to the July Email and the July Email was
not returned as undeliverable.

13. | During the Respondent’s Interview® on August 7, 2023, the Respondent

discussed prescribing to her family members with the Board and stated, among other

“The Board mailed the June Letter to the address the Respondent provided on her application to renew her
license to practice medicine in Maryland that was submitted to the Board on September 30, 2022 (the
“Application”). The Application stated that the Board would use the address provided by the Respondent
for official correspondence. The Board never received a change of address from the Respondent after she
submitted the Application.

> The Board emailed the Respondent at the two email addresses, an official email address and a personal
email address, the Respondent provided on the Application.

® The only notification the Board sent to the Respondent regarding the Respondent’s Interview was a
subpoena ad testificandum mailed to the Respondent’s address of record on or around July 27, 2023.

4

 
things, “I think you guys asked for paperwork and things like that, so I have to provide
those for you.”

14. During the Respondent’s Interview, the Respondent provided the Board an
alternate address (the “Alternate Address”) than the Address of Record.

15. By letter dated August 11, 2023 (the “August Letter”), sent to the Alternate
Address, the Board, among other things, issued the Respondent a subpoena (the “August
Subpoena”) for medical records for specific family members and herself to be delivered
within five (5) business days from the date of the August Subpoena.

16. On August 11, 2023, the Board also emailed the Respondent (the “August
Email”) the August Subpoena to the Email Addresses of Record.

17. The Respondent did not comply with the August Subpoena or otherwise
respond to the August Letter or the August Email. The August Letter and the August Email
were not returned as undeliverable.

The Respondent’s Medical and Health Conditions

18. During the Respondent’s Interview, the Respondent made statements about
her health’ including but not limited to:

a. In December 2022, she “began to realize that [she] shouldn't
practice [medicine]” and she stopped practicing medicine due
to her health conditions.

b. Her health conditions caused her to “not [be] aware of a lot of
things...I don’t remember things that happened to me.”

7 For confidentiality reasons, specific information regarding the Respondent’s health, including but not
limited to the Respondent’s reported health conditions and information in the Respondent’s Medical and
Health Records, will not be disclosed in this Consent Order.
c. She was recently hospitalized, twice, due to her health
conditions. In April 2023, she required surgery and in late July
2023, she was hospitalized for 11 days.

19. The Respondent also provided the Board written authorization to release her
medical and health records (the “Respondent’s Medical and Health Records”) to the Board.
20. A medical professional reviewed documents contained in the Board’s
investigative file, including but not limited to the Respondent’s Medical and Health
Records received by the Board, and opined that the Respondent “is not safe to practice

medicine at this time.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board concludes as a
matter of law that the Respondent: Is guilty of: Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); Is professionally, physically, or
mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); and Fails to cooperate
with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33).

ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension, issued on September 27,
2023, and affirmed on October 12, 2023, is terminated as moot based upon the suspension
ordered under this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED
for a minimum period of SIX MONTHS ® from the effective date of this Consent Order.
During the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and
conditions of the suspension:

(1) During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold herself out to
the public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care

provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(e) prescribe or dispense medications; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.
(2) The Respondent shall undergo a comprehensive evaluation by the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and/or its agents to determine
the Respondent’s fitness to practice medicine safely. The following conditions
apply:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

® If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions
will be tolled.

copie te ne
(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. The Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent;
(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including,
but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. The Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent;
(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;
(3) After the minimum period of suspension has passed, and the evaluation by
MPRP and/or its agents is complete, the evaluation shall be reviewed by Panel A.
The parties may be required to appear before Panel A to discuss whether the
Respondent is fit to return to the practice of medicine, and, if so, whether and what
probationary conditions are necessary. If Panel A determines that it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated
through an order of Panel A and Panel A may impose any terms and conditions it

deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but not limited

to, probation and the Respondent’s continued enrollment in MPRP. If Panel A
determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine,
Panel A may issue any order appropriate to the circumstances in the matter:

(4) Within ONE (1) YEAR from the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent is required to take and successfully complete a course in medical
ethics. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(c) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal;

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further
ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further
ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an

opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on
the Respondent; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

02 106 [202 Signature On File
Dat Christine A. Farfelly () ()
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians

10
