 

John Merren Byrne, D.O.

Date: March i 2014

Damean Freas, D.O. Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
John Byrne, D.O. License Number: H59435

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number H59435, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et
seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that I have been indicted in the Circuit Court for Harford County
for sex abuse of a minor and related charges (Case No. 12-K-17-001029). I admit that the
crimes with which I have been charged in the Circuit Court for Harford County constitute
crimes involving moral turpitude and, upon a conviction or guilty plea, would support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(b) (crime of moral turpitude), I have
decided to voluntarily, knowingly and freely surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further disciplinary action against my license in the event I
am convicted or plead guilty to a crime involving moral turpitude.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
Damean Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: John Byrne, D.O.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession,
including but not limited to a prohibition on treating minors. In the event that
reinstatement is granted, I agree to PERMANENTLY refrain from providing medical
care to minors. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my
license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s
actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I
make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

John Byrne,D.Q.  ~
V .
Damean Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: John Byme, D.O.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF Haupland
CITY/COUNTY O hfe

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this May of Bhvany, 2019 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared John Byrne, D.O., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was voluntary.

 
  

 
  
 
    
  

Notary Public
Harford County
Maryland

My Commission Expires

   

My commission expires: /.2-/)- /?

ACCEPTANCE
a eee (ce)
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this a day of Wich , 2048; I,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of John Byrne, D.O.’s license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 
   

- Christine A. Farrelly, |
Maryland Board of Phys
