IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JEFFERY DORMU, D.O. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: H65639 * Case Numbers: 2222-0014A
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On August 17, 2022, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged JEFFERY DORMU, D.O. (the “Respondent”),
License Number H65639, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2021 Repl. Vol.).

Specifically, Disciplinary Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the
following provisions of the Act:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations
~— Grounds.

(a) In general. Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,

place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(19) Grossly overutilizes health care services;
(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this State; [and/or]

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review[.]

On September 14, 2022, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for
Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of
this DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings
of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel A finds:

1. At all relevant times, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland. The Board initially issued the Respondent a license to practice
medicine in Maryland on February 13, 2007, under License Number H65639. His license
is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2022.

2. The Respondent is board certified in Surgery and Vascular Surgery.

3. The Respondent owns and operates a medical practice with an office in
Laurel, Maryland. The Respondent’s practice focuses on “the diagnos[is] and treatment of

all disease of the arteries, veins, and lymphatic systems.”
(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary
panel that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(c) the courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal;

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the courses;

2. The Respondent shall be subject to supervision?’ for the duration of
probation by a disciplinary panel-approved supervisor who is board-

certified in vascular surgery as follows:

(a) the Respondent shall grant the supervisor access to patient records
selected by the supervisor, which shall, to the extent practicable,
focus on the type of treatment at issue in the Respondent’s
charges;

(b) if the supervisor for any reason ceases to provide supervision, the
Respondent shall immediately notify the Board and shall not
practice medicine beyond the 30 day after the supervisor has
ceased to provide supervision and until the Respondent has
submitted the name and professional background, and written
notice of confirmation, from a proposed replacement supervisor to
the disciplinary panel;

(c) it shall be the Respondent’s responsibility to ensure that the
supervisor:

(1) reviews the records of 10 patients each month, such patient
records to be chosen by the supervisor and not the Respondent;

(2) meets in-person with the Respondent at least once each month
and discuss in-person with the Respondent the care the
Respondent has provided for these specific patients;

(3) be available to the Respondent for consultations on any patient;

3 Tf the Respondent is not practicing medicine, the supervision shall begin when the Respondent resumes the practice
of medicine.

11
(4) maintains the confidentiality of all medical records and patient
information;

(5) provides the Board with quarterly reports which detail the
quality of the Respondent’s practice, any deficiencies, concerns,
or needed improvements, as well as any measures that have been
taken to improve patient care; and

(6) immediately reports to the Board any indication that the
Respondent may pose a substantial risk to patients;

(d) the Respondent shall follow any recommendations of the
supervisor;

(e) if the disciplinary panel, upon consideration of the supervisory
reports and the Respondent’s response, if any, has a reasonable
basis to believe that the Respondent is not meeting the standard of
quality care or failing to keep adequate medical records in his or
her practice, the disciplinary panel may find a violation of
probation after a hearing;

3. Within ONE (1) YEAR, the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of
$10,000.00. The Payment shall be by money order or bank certified
check made payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed to
P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not renew
or reinstate the Respondent’s license if the Respondent fails to timely pay
the fine to the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall complete at least twenty-five (25) out of the
fifty (50) Continuing Medical Education credit hours required for license renewal in the
field of vascular surgery prior to renewing his license in 2024. If the Respondent does not

renew his license prior to September 30, 2022, the Respondent shall complete the CMEs

as part of the requirements for reinstatement; and it is further

12
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation;
and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has
passed, the Respondent may submit to the Board a written petition for termination of
probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an
order of the disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be required to appear before the
disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant
the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary panel, if the
Respondent has complied with all probationary terms and conditions and there are no
pending complaints relating to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order;

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,

the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is

further

13
ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

 

Signature on File
lofiifzozz. .
Date * Christine A. Farrelly () ( Jd

Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

14
CONSENT

I, Jeffery Dormu, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before signing
this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments
or modifications to any condition.

L assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq. concerning
the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.
I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other
substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and
substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the

disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent
Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and
meaning of its terms.

Veriton Signature on File

Date Jeffery Bormu, M.D.

 

15
NOTARY

STATE OF (4ry/a

CITY / COUNTY OF Hoard

THEREBY CERTIPY that on this 4 fe day of O chhe— 2022,

before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared

Jeffery Dormu, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

VUE
yy Ny
T.

» a M TRo, “Un, :

ea ission'g. sle%

iY QOTAR) A i

2 en a aE Notary Public
UBL :

Op 81-22 a

ARS c BSUS My Commission expires: 0/7 22/2024
Hw

ty,

4,

Min, My,

s

  

ty

.
a
Or.

A ,

~
>
>

SK

16
I. Complaints

4. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing a
complaint (“Complaint A”) dated November 10, 2020 from a former patient of the
Respondent (“Complainant A”).!

5. Complainant A alleged that the Respondent attempted to pressure her to
undergo a medically unnecessary invasive vascular procedure.

6. On October 27, 2020, Complainant A presented to the Respondent with a
complaint of extreme itching on her lower legs. The Respondent recommended an
arteriogram? followed by an ultrasound at a later date. Complainant A obtained a second
opinion from another physician (“Physician A”) at a different facility where she received
an ultrasound. After reviewing the ultrasound, Physician A advised Complainant A that
her legs looked fine and that she probably had a bad reaction to an insect bite. Physician A
also recommended that Complainant A request a referral to a dermatologist from her
primary care physician.

7. On October 13, 2021, while investigating Complaint A, the Board received
a second complaint (“Complaint B”) from another of the Respondent’s former patients

(“Complainant B”).

' For confidentiality reasons, the Complainants and any patients referenced herein will not be identified by
name. The Respondent may obtain the identity of any individual referenced herein by contacting the
administrative prosecutor.

2 An arteriogram is a catheter-based procedure that requires puncture through the skin into an artery in the
arm, or more commonly, the leg, maneuvering guidewires and catheters through various arteries, and
injection of contrast material. A patient is typically sedated during this procedure.
8. Complainant B presented to the Respondent on May 6, 2019 with a complaint
-of pain and swelling in the left leg. The Respondent subsequently diagnosed Complainant
B with a vascular condition and performed a venogram.? Complainant B later sought a
second opinion from which he learned that the venogram was medically unnecessary.

9. Complainant B’s diagnosis was not medically justified and the treatment that
the Respondent provided was medically unnecessary based on the incorrect diagnosis.
II, Respondent’s Written Responses to the Complaints

10. In his written response to Complaint A, the Respondent stated that the
procedures recommended by the Respondent were necessary given the Respondent’s
assessment of Complainant A’s condition. Additionally, the Respondent stated that there
is clinical evidence to support his diagnosis of Complainant A.

11. In his written response to Complaint B, the Respondent stated that his
treatment of Complainant B was conservative and that he did not perform any highly
invasive procedures on Complainant B.

I. Peer Review

12. As part of its investigation, the Board referred both Complainants’ medical
records along with nine (9) additional patient records obtained from the Respondent
(referenced infra as “Patients 1-11”) and related materials for peer review.

13. The peer review was performed by two peer reviewers who are both board-
certified in Vascular Surgery (“Peer Reviewer 1” and “Peer Reviewer 2,” respectively).

> A venogram is an x-ray examination that uses an injection of contrast material to show how blood flows
through the veins, especially in the legs.
The peer reviewers submitted reports to the Board addressing the standard of care, the
maintenance of adequate medical records, and the overutilization of health services.
WI. = Failure to Meet Standard of Quality Medical Care

14. The peer reviewers independently concluded that the Respondent failed to
meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care in ten (10) of the eleven
(11) patients whose charts were reviewed.

15. The peer reviewers found that the Respondent often incorrectly diagnosed
patients with peripheral arterial disease (“PAD”)* and other vascular diseases in the
absence of clinical justification.’ The Respondent would then perform or recommend
medically unnecessary invasive vascular procedures and interventions as part of the
patients’ treatment plan.°

16. The Respondent performed invasive procedures including but not limited to:
angiogram, angioplasty,’ aortogram,® arteriogram,? intravascular ultrasound (IVUS),!° vein
ablation,!! venacavogram,!* and atherectomy.!? These procedures involve the insertion of
a catheter through the skin into an area of the body such as the arm, leg, or groin area.

Additionally, in an atherectomy, rotating blades are used to remove plaque in an artery.

4 Peripheral arterial disease (“PAD”) is the narrowing or blockage of the vessels that carry blood from the
heart to the legs. It is primarily caused by the buildup of fatty plaque in the arteries.
5 See e.g., Patients 1, 2, 3,5, 6, 7, and 10.

6 See e.g., Patients 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 10.

7 See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, and 11.

8 See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6,9, 10, and 11.

° See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6,9, 10, and 11.

' See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 10, and 11.

" See e.g., Patients 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10.

2 See e.g., Patients 2 and 8. :

3 See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, and 11.
17. | The peer reviewers concurred that the Respondent failed to use conservative
management techniques!‘ to address the patients’ complaints before resorting to invasive
procedures. The Respondent’s performance of these procedures typically was not
medically necessary nor clinically justified.

18. The Respondent’s performance of invasive vascular procedures in the
absence of medical justification resulted in more severe symptoms for Patients 6 and 10.
Moreover, the Respondent failed to provide immediate and urgent treatment to Patient 6 as
necessitated by his condition when he presented to the Respondent with worsening
symptoms.

18. The Respondent made various errors of omission in his treatment of multiple
patients which deviated from the required standard of care:

a. In some instances, the Respondent failed to perform typical
procedures prior to the use of invasive testing such as screening with
ankle brachial indexes (“ABI”).!°

b. In other instances, the Respondent failed to evaluate patients before,
during, and after sedation that was used to perform invasive

procedures to determine the risk of contrast nephropathy.'® Patients 5

4 Conservative management refers to risk factor modification and preventative or compressive therapies.
'S Ankle brachial index (“ABI”) is a test that compares the blood pressure in the upper and lower limbs. It
is used to help determine whether a patient has PAD in the blood vessels in his or her legs. See e.g., Patients
land 9.

‘6 Contrast nephropathy is an acute decline in renal function following the administration of intravenous
contrast. See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
and 11 were at higher risk for this complication given their history of
diabetes.

19. The Respondent repeatedly noted abnormal findings which contradicted the
information in the medical records or noted normal findings when there was an abnormal
indication.!’7 The Respondent subjected patients with normal findings to medically
unnecessary and invasive vascular procedures. Such practice indicates an issue with the
delivery of quality medical care specifically regarding deficiencies in the Respondent’s
knowledge base and/or inadequacies in recordkeeping.

IV. Failure to Keep Adequate Medical Records

20. The reviewers also concluded that the Respondent failed to keep adequate
medical records in eleven (11) out of the eleven (11) patients whose charts were reviewed.

21. The peer reviewers agreed that the Respondent often failed to document
detailed clinical history and review of symptoms in the medical records. In addition, the
Respondent’s operative notes were also vague and/or incomplete. The Respondent relied
on these deficient records to support the continued use of medically unnecessary and
invasive vascular procedures.

Vv. Gross Overutilization of Health Care Services

22. The reviewers also concluded that the Respondent grossly over utilized

healthcare services in eleven (11) out of the eleven (11) patients whose charts were

reviewed.

'” See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6, 10, and 11.
23. The Respondent grossly overutilized healthcare services by performing
and/or recommending various medically unnecessary invasive and non-invasive vascular
procedures without clinical justification:

a. The Respondent recommended and/or performed various invasive
procedures before exploring conservative management techniques or
other non-invasive imaging modalities. !*

b. The Respondent performed extensive non-invasive imaging studies.!?

24. The Respondent’s practice of incorrectly diagnosing patients with vascular
diseases and immediate use of invasive procedures after initial evaluation indicates a
pattern of gross overutilization of healthcare services.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent grossly overutilized health care services, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(19), failed to meet the standard of care for the delivery of quality medical services,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22), and failed to keep adequate medical records,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40).

ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

'8 See paragraph 16-17 above.
9 See e.g., Patients 2, 3, 7, and 11.
ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice

Medicine, dated August 3, 2022, is TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED”®

for a minimum of THIRTY (30) DAYS”! and until a supervisor board certified in vascular

surgery is approved as follows:

1,

Within 30 CALENDAR DAYS of the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall provide the disciplinary panel with the
name, pertinent professional background information of the supervisor
whom the Respondent is offering for approval, and written notice to the
disciplinary panel from the supervisor confirming his or her acceptance
of the supervisory role of the Respondent and that there is no personal
or professional relationship with the supervisor;

The Respondent’s proposed supervisor, to the best of the Respondent’s
knowledge, should not be an individual who is currently under
investigation, and has not been disciplined by the Board within the past
five years;

20 (a) During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:
(1) practice medicine;
(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself or herself out to the public
as a current provider of medical services;
(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider number by any health
care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the

state;

(5) prescribe or dispense medications; or

(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.
(b) The Respondent shall establish and implement a procedure by which the Respondent’s patients may
obtain their medical records without undue burden and notify all patients of that procedure; and
(c) The Respondent shall notify in writing ail athletic trainers with whom there is an evaluation and
treatment protocol, all physician assistants with whom there is a delegation agreement, and all Naturopathic
Doctors with whom there is a collaboration agreement that all Evaluation and Treatment Protocols for
Athletic Trainers, all Delegation Agreements for Physician Assistants, and all collaboration agreements are

terminated.

71 Tf the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions

will be tolled.
3. The disciplinary panel, in its discretion, may accept the proposed
supervisor or request that the Respondent submit a name and
professional background, and written notice of confirmation from a
different supervisor;

4. The supervision begins after the disciplinary panel approves the
proposed supervisor;

5. The disciplinary panel will provide the supervisor with a copy of this
Consent Order and any other documents the disciplinary panel deems
relevant; and it is further
ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension has passed and after
receiving the Panel’s approval of a supervisor, the Respondent may submit to the Board a
written petition for termination of suspension. After determination that the Respondent has
complied with the relevant terms of the Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may
administratively terminate the Respondent’s suspension through an order of the
disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that upon termination of the suspension, the Respondent is placed on
PROBATION for a minimum of TWO (2) YEARS.” During probation, the Respondent
shall comply with the following terms and conditions of probation:

1. Within SIX (6) MONTHS, the Respondent is required to take and
successfully complete a course in medical recordkeeping and a course in
professional ethics. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain

the disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is
begun;

2 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will
be tolled.

10
