IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JEFFERY DORMU, D.O. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: H65639 * Case Number: 2222-00144

RRKAR KR RK KKK KKK AKA KR ARK KEK AAR KKK KEK KKK KR KKK K RE KE

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of JEFFERY DORMU, D.O.
(the “Respondent”), License Number H65639, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland. .

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol.), concluding that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:'

' The statements about the Respondent’s conduct set forth in this document are intended to provide the
Respondent with reasonable notice of the basis for this suspension. They are not intended as, and do not
necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be
offered against the Respondent in connection with this action.
I. BACKGROUND

1. At all relevant times, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Board initially issued the Respondent a license to
practice medicine in Maryland on February 13, 2007, under License Number H65639.
His license is active through September 30, 2022.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in Surgery and Vascular Surgery.

3, The Respondent owns and operates a medical practice with an office in
Laurel, Maryland. The Respondent’s practice focuses on “the diagnos[is] and treatment
of all disease of the arteries, veins, and lymphatic systems.”

Il. COMPLAINTS

4. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after reviewing a
complaint (“Complaint A”) dated November 10, 2020 from a former patient of the
Respondent (“Complainant A”).

5. Complainant A alleged that the Respondent attempted to pressure her to
undergo a medically unnecessary invasive vascular procedure.

6. On October 27, 2020, Complainant A presented to the Respondent with a
complaint of extreme itching on her lower legs. The Respondent recommended an
arteriogram? followed by an ultrasound at a later date. Complainant A obtained a second
opinion from another physician (“Physician A”) at a different facility where she received
an ultrasound. After reviewing the ultrasound, Physician A advised Complainant A that

? For confidentiality reasons, the Complainants and any patients referenced herein will not be identified
by name. The Respondent may obtain the identity of any individual referenced herein by contacting the
administrative prosecutor.

* An arteriogram is a catheter based procedure that requires puncture through the skin into an artery in the
arm, or more commonly, the leg, maneuvering guidewires and catheters through various arteries, and
injection of contrast material. A patient is typically sedated during this procedure.

2
her legs looked fine and that she probably had a bad reaction to an insect bite. Physician
A also recommended that Complainant A request a referral to a dermatologist from her
primary care physician.

7. On October 13, 2021, while investigating Complaint A, the Board received
a second complaint (“Complaint B”) from another of the Respondent’s former patients
(“Complainant B”).

8. Complainant B presented to the Respondent on May 6, 2019 with a
complaint of pain and swelling in the left leg. The Respondent subsequently diagnosed
Complainant B with a vascular condition and performed a venogram.' Complainant B
later sought a second opinion from which he learned that the venogram was medically
unnecessary,

9. Complainant B’s diagnosis was not medically justified and the treatment
that the Respondent provided was medically unnecessary based on the incorrect
diagnosis.

IIL. BOARD INVESTIGATION

10. By letter dated November 18, 2020, the Board provided the Respondent
with a copy of Complaint A and directed him to provide a response to the allegations.
Further, the Board issued a subpoena duces tecum to him for Complainant A’s complete

medical records.

“A venogram is an x-ray examination that uses an injection of contrast material to show how blood flows
through your veins, especially in your legs.
It. On or about December 2, 2020, the Board received Complainant A’s
medical records from the Respondent along with the Respondent’s written response to
Complaint A.

12. By letter dated August 4, 2021, the Board issued a subpoena duces tecum to
him for appointment logs for patients seen January 1, 2020 through August 4, 2021 on
whom the Respondent had performed specified vascular procedures.

13. On or about August 11, 2021, the Board received the patient logs.

14. On August 27, 2021, the Board issued to the Respondent a subpoena duces
tecum requesting medical records of nine (9) additional patients and a corresponding
summary of care for each patient.

15. On October 13, 2021, the Board received the aforementioned complaint
from Complainant B.

16. On October 26, 2021, the Board provided the Respondent with a copy of
Complaint B and directed him to provide a response to the allegations. Further, the Board
issued a subpoena duces tecum to him for Complainant B’s complete medical records.

17. On November 26, 2021, the Board received the Respondent’s written
response to Complaint B along with the medical records for Complainant B.
Respondent’s written responses to the complaints

18. In his written response to Complaint A, the Respondent stated that the
procedures recommended by the Respondent were necessary given the Respondent’s
assessment of Complainant A’s condition. Additionally, the Respondent stated that there

is clinical evidence to support his diagnosis of Complainant A.
19. In his written response to Complaint B, the Respondent stated that his
treatment of Complainant B was conservative and that he did not perform any highly

invasive procedures on Complainant B.

Peer Review

20. As part of its investigation, the Board referred both Complainants’ medical
records along with those of the nine (9) additional patient records obtained from the
Respondent (referenced infra as “Patients 1-11”) and related materials for peer review.

21. The peer review was performed by two peer reviewers who are both board-
certified in Vascular Surgery (“Peer Reviewer 1” and “Peer Reviewer 2,” respectively),
The peer reviewers independently concluded that the Respondent failed to meet
appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care in ten (10) of the eleven
(11) patients whose charts were reviewed. The reviewers also concluded that the
Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records and grossly over utilized healthcare
services in eleven (11) out of the eleven (11) patients whose charts were reviewed.

22. Both peer reviewers expressed concern regarding the potential risk of harm
entailed in the Respondent’s repeated use of invasive and medically unnecessary
procedures. As a result, the Board requested the peer reviewers to submit an additional
report addressing their concerns. The peer reviewers submitted an Addendum to the
reports on July {1, 2022.

23. The peer reviewers agreed that the Respondent performed medically
unnecessary and invasive vascular procedures on ten (10) of the patients, thereby

exposing them to potential risks such as bleeding, infection, blood vessel injuries which
could acutely or chronically worsen the patient’s circulation, and limb loss. The frequent
use of medically unnecessary procedures increases the risk to each patient and to the
population of potential patients.

24, The peer reviewers concurred that the Respondent failed to use
conservative management techniques? to address the patients’ vascular complaints before
resorting to invasive procedures. More advanced or invasive procedures are reserved for
patients about whom a decision has been reached to proceed to intervention for
compelling symptoms that have failed conservative management.

25. ‘The peer reviewers also found that the Respondent made either incorrect
diagnoses or diagnoses that were not consistent with the patient’s history or clinical
symptoms. Patients with normal arterial studies were subjected to unnecessary arterial
procedures without clinical justification. Such practice indicates inadequacies in the
Respondent’s demonstrated knowledge base thus subjecting the patients and population
of potential patients to further risk of harm.

Invasive procedures performed by the Respondent

26. The Respondent performed various invasive procedures, more than once in

some instances, on patients 2-11 including, inter alia: angiogram, angioplasty,‘
aortogram,’ arteriogram,® intravascular ultrasound (IVUS),’ vein ablation, !°
venacavogram,'! and atherectomy.'? These procedures involve the insertion of a catheter
* Conservative management refers to risk factor modification and preventative or compressive therapies.
° See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6,9, 10, and 11.
"See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6,9, 10, and 11.
8 See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 6,9, 10, and 11.
” See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 10, and 11.

' See e.g., Patients 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10.
" See e.g., Patients 2 and 8.
through the skin into an area of the body such as the arm, leg, or groin area. Additionally,

in an atherectomy, rotating blades are used to remove plaque in an artery. Risks

associated with such procedures include but are not limited to: bleeding (which can cause

bruising, swelling, and/or pain from internal bleeding, and which can require transfusion

or emergency surgery), infection, blood vessel injuries (including pseudoaneurysm,

dissection, thrombosis, and/or occlusion), and limb loss. Such conditions could acutely or

chronically worsen the patient’s circulation and could require additional procedures.

The Respondent’s performance of invasive vascular procedures in the

absence of medical justification put patients at the risk of harm or, in some instances,

resulted in the worsening of their conditions:

The Respondent performed bilateral selective renal artery
angiograms'* on Patient 4 who suffers from chronic hypertension.
Selective renal artery angiography carries risks including contrast-
induced nephropathy’ and dissection or injury to the renal artery
itself from cannulation'® of the renal artery with the angiography
catheter. Furthermore, the Respondent treated this patient with a
high dose of steroids before performing an arteriogram which can
have adverse effects on blood sugar, blood pressure, and healing.

The Respondent performed an angiogram on Patient 5 in part to
evaluate her aortic aneurysm. Aneurysms do not require invasive

angiography for diagnosis, assessment of size or leakage. Such

 

"; See e.8., Patients 4, 5, 6,9, 10, and 11.

3

=

iSq

 

This type of angiogram provides imaging of the blood vessels in n the kidneys.
Deterioration of kidney function.
[he insertion of a small tube into a body cavity, duct, or vessel.

7
procedure put Patient 5 at risk for bleeding, thrombosis, arterial
dissection, and arterial occlusion.

c, The Respondent performed multiple invasive procedures on Patient
6 who initially presented for evaluation of possible artery or vein
obstruction in the left leg. At the time of the initial visit, Patient 6
had the ability to walk approximately one (1) mile before the onset
of leg pain. Patient 6 endured worsening symptoms and an inability
to walk after the initial left leg arteriogram performed by the
Respondent. The Respondent continued to perform left leg
arteriograms on Patient 6 despite worsening perfusion and more
severe symptoms in that leg.

d. The Respondent incorrectly diagnosed Patient 10 with peripheral
arterial disease (PAD)'® and thus treated Patient 10 with a number of
arterial interventions which worsened her lower extremity perfusion.
This over-utilization of both unnecessary diagnostic and invasive
procedures is harmful to patients.

Risk of harm related to sedation

28. The Respondent utilized intravenous (“IV”) sedation on multiple patients in
his performance of the aforementioned invasive procedures, The Respondent, however,
typically failed to document the results of monitoring of the patients who had undergone
sedation'’ in accordance with the invasive procedure. The medical records demonstrate
'S Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is the narrowing or blockage of the vessels that carry blood from the

heart to the legs, It is primarily caused by the buildup of fatty plaque in the arteries,
" See e.g., Patients 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, and 11.
inadequacies related to the safe delivery of moderate procedural sedation, often lacking

any documentation related to pre-, intra-, and post-procedural evaluation.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes that the public
health, safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol.) and COMAR
[0.32.02.08B(7).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings and Conclusion of Law, it is, by a
majority of a quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the license of JEFFERY
DORMU, D.O., License Number H65639, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
is SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further .

ORDERED that,. during the summary suspension, the Respondent shall not:

practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further «..

T)

ORDERED that in accordance with COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7) and E a post-

 

deprivation hearing onthe summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, August 10,
2022, at 11:15 a.m. at the Board’s offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215; and it is further

ORDERED that SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A, the

Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request within ten (10) days

9
an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within thirty (0) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031; and it
is further
ORDERED that a copy of this Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel A in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2021 Repl. Vol.); and it is further
ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a public document.

See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File
Christine A. Farrelly ()

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
