IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

NILAY B. THAKER, D.O. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: H70147 * Case Number: 2219-0181A

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of NILAY B. THAKER, D.O.
(the “Respondent”), License Number H70147, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), concluding that the public health,
safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.
INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true: I

‘The statements regarding Panel A’s investigative findings are intended to provide the Respondent with
notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a
complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
L BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on January 8, 2010, under License Number H70147. The
Respondent’s license is current through September 30, 2021.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in family medicine.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as a family
medicine physician with a health care provider (the “Health Care Group”) located in
Frederick, Maryland.

4, On or about April 15, 2019, the Board opened an investigation of the
Respondent after receiving a complaint from a family member (the “Complainant”)” of a
patient (the “Patient”). The Complainant alleged that the Respondent, who was the
Patient’s family physician, prescribed excessive amounts of Adderall to the Patient. The
Complainant further provided copies of social media message exchanges between the
Respondent and the Patient in which the Respondent agreed to provide cash for the
Patient to pay her telephone bill in exchange for videos of her having sex with her
boyfriend.

Il. BOARD INVESTIGATION
5. As part of its investigation, the Board requested that the Respondent

provide a written response to the complaint. In a letter date October 8, 2019, the

? For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in
this case are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and
health care facilities referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.
Respondent explained his medical rationale for increasing or decreasing the Patient’s
Adderall dosage. The Respondent further denied engaging in an inappropriate
relationship with the Patient.

6. The Board’s investigation revealed that the Respondent began treating the
Patient, then in her early 20s, in or around April 2015 for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder (“ADHD”). On or about June 20, 2016, the Complainant filed a complaint with
the Health Care Group alleging that the Respondent prescribed excessive amounts of
Adderall to the Patient. In furtherance of the investigation, the Board issued a subpoena
to the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”). The Board also obtained and
reviewed the Respondent’s pharmacy records. The information obtained revealed that
the Respondent prescribed several controlled dangerous substances to the Patient in or
around February 2017, which the Respondent admitted was done without any office visits
with the Patient. Pharmacy drug surveys further revealed that the Respondent wrote two
prescriptions on or about August 7, 2018, for an antibiotic medication in his family
member’s name and later provided the medications to the Patient pursuant to the Patient’s
request.

7, The Board’s investigation further revealed that in a series of social media
message exchanges between July 2018 and February 2019, the Respondent continued to
provide medical advice and a prescription-only medication to the Patient during that time
period. The message exchanges further revealed that the Respondent periodically

provided cash to the Patient in order that she could pay her telephone bills in exchange
for videos of the Patient having sex with her partners. The message exchanges included
sexually explicit discussions of the videos.
8. On or about February 27, 2020, the Respondent was interviewed under oath
_ at the Board’s offices. The Respondent stated that he initially treated the Patient for
ADHD beginning April 2015. The Respondent stated that he stopped providing care to
the Patient in December 2016 after her family member filed a complaint with the Health
Care Group. The Respondent stated that in August of 2016, he began exchanging
sexually explicit electronic communications with the Patient, which led to their having
sexual intercourse at a parking lot in the winter of late 2016/early 2017. The Respondent
further stated that between August 2018 and March 2019, he continued to provide
medical advice to the Patient regarding urinary tract infections, reviewed her laboratory
report and prescribed an antibiotic medication to her. The Respondent admitted that
during this time period, he provided a total of approximately $1,000 in cash to the Patient
in exchange for approximately ten videos of the Patient having sex with her partners.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter of
law that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2019 Supp.)

and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).
ORDER

It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR10.32.02.08B(7)(a), the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and
it is further

ORDERED that a_ post-deprivation hearing in accordance with
COMARL10.32.02.05B(7) on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, April
8, 2020, at 11:15 a.m. before Panel A at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request within ten (10)
days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed with
the Board in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2019 Supp.);

and it is further
ORDERED that this is an Order of Disciplinary Panel A, and as such, is a
PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and

Gen. Provisions § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File
03/24 /Z0Z0

Dat Christine A. Farrefly| L) (
Executive Director {

Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
