Jessica Greco, D.O.

Date: O77 i 2/20 Zee

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Jessica Greco, D.O.
License Number: H77209
Case Number: 7722-0063

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number H77209, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice medicine, with or
without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 e¢ seg. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation based on allegations that I
provided medical services through a telemedicine appointment while under the influence
of alcohol or while using a narcotic or CDS and prescribed to a family member on
numerous occasions. Additionally, I also acknowledge that the Board also received an
allegation from a reporting entity that I was being treated for a narcotic or CDS and abuse
condition that was likely to impact my ability to practice safely and competently. On
September 21, 2021, the Panel summarily suspended my license based on the
aforementioned allegations and subsequent investigation. On September 30, 2021, the
Panel issued charges alleging that I was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine; professionally, physically or mentally incompetent; habitually intoxicated;
addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
define in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article; provides professinal services while under

|
|
|

 

 
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Jessica Greco, D.O.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

the influence of alcohol; and provides professional sevices while using any narcotic or
controlled dangerous substance, as define in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or
other durg that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medial indication, in
violation of Health Occ. §§ 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (4), (7), (8), (DG, and (9)fii). As a
resolution to the charges, I entered into a Consent Order with Panel A on February 2,
2022 that concluded, as a matter of law, that I violated the disciplinary grounds alleged,
Health Occ. §§ 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (4), (7), (8), (9)@), and (9)Gi). The Consent Order
terminated the summary suspension of my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, suspended my medical license in the State of Maryland for a minimum period
of one year, required that J enroll in and comply with the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”), and required that I take and successfully complete a
course in medical ethics. A copy of the Order for Summary Suspension of License to
Practice Medicine and Consent Order are attached and incorporated herein as
Attachments | and 2.

I acknowledge that on June 1, 2022, the MPRP closed my case for cause based on
my failure to comply and cooperate with their referrals, rules and requirements.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because of my illness, lack of support, and to avoid prosecution for failing to
comply with the conditions of the Consent Order. I acknowledge that the Consent Order
will remain and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon
acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions
of the Consent Order as long as I do not have or possess an active medical license in
Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender | am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

 

 
 

22. The records stated that the Respondent was charged with multiple counts of
assault and assault-related charges in Oregon.

23. The documents obtained by the Board investigators stated that the
Respondent’ s assaulting of family members was related to her diagnosis. .
. 24. The court records further stated that on April 15, 2021, the Respondent pled
“no contest” to two (2) counts of Assault in the fourth degree’ and was sentenced to one
(1) year of probation. The terms of probation ordered by the judge, included terms related
to alcohol.
The Respondent’s Three Admissions to the Emergency Department

25. The Board obtained the Respondent’s medical records and the related
emergency medical services (“EMS”) reports for the Respondent’s three (3) hospital
admissions on June 24, 2021 (the “June 24, 2021 Records”); June 27, 2021 (the “June 27,
2021 Records”); and July 14, 2021 (the “July 14, 2021 Records”). The Board also obtained
the Respondent’s employment records including, but not limited to, the Respondent’s
patient consultation list (the “Respondent’s Patient Consultation List”) which states the
dates and times of the Respondent’s telemedicine appointments with patients.

The Respondent’s June 24, 2021 Admission

26. The June 24, 2021 Records stated that the Respondent was taken to the

hospital after she was found in the bushes and stated that she had memory issues.

“On April 16, 2021, the Respondent self-reported her convictions for two (2) fourth degree assault
convictions to the Board.
27. The June 24, 2021 Records also stated, among other things, that while at the
hospital, the Respondent had a blood alcohol level of 370 mg/100 mL and medication was
found in her belongings.

The Respondent's June 27, 2021 Admission

28. The June 27, 2021 Records stated, among other things, that:

a. EMS responded to the Respondent’s location at 5:55 p.m. after a
family member of the Respondent contacted EMS and reported that the Respondent
“ingested (sic) unknown amount of pills.”

b. Multiple medications were found in the Respondents bag.

c. The Respondent “stated that she worked, drank wine, and then was at
the hospital” and that she believes that she “blacked out.”

d. The Respondent was not discharged from the hospital until the
following day.

29. The Respondent’s Patient Consultation List states that the Respondent had
telemedicine appointments with patients on June 27, 2021 around the time of her hospital
admission.

The Respondent's July 14, 2021 Admission

30. The July 14, 2021 Records stated that the Respondent was admitted to the
hospital after she was “found wandering around the streets” and stated that “she had a lot
to drink.”

31. | The Respondent was found to have a “blood alcohol level of 240mg/100 ml

or more” and released the same day.
 

32. The Respondent’s Patient Consultation List states that the Respondent
conducted two telemedicine appointments on July 14, 2021, the same day as her hospital,
around the time of her hospital admission.

The Respondent’s Response

33. On or around September 3, 2021, Board investigators conducted an under-
oath interview with the Respondent. The Respondent stated:

a. Her telemedicine appointments occur “on demand,” she usually signs
inn the morning and signs off in the evening around 5 or 6 p.m., and she has twenty
(20) to twenty-five (25) telemedicine appointments each day.

». Tn the past month, she has “drank a little bit more than usual” and her
hospital admissions were due to “alcohol use.”

c. She is “working actively to improve things in [her] life and continue
to not consume any alcohol and...weaning off [medication] actively and
considering...an intensive outpatient program or an intensive inpatient program as
a possibility to help [her] do those things.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, pursuant
to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and COMAR

10.32.02.08B(7).
ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings and Conclusions of Law, it is
thus, by a majority of a quorum of Panel A of the Board, hereby:
. ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. § 10-
226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is thus further

ORDERED that, during the summary suspension, the Respondent shall not
practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further
. ORDERED that in accordance with COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a post-
deprivation hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, October 6,
2021, at 12:15 p.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel A immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it

is further
ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a public document. See

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, } (/
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

04 [2 [202 |

Date

10
Attachment 2
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JESSICA GRECO, D.O. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: H77209 * Case Number: 2222-0012 A
* * * * * * x * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

 

On September 30, 2021, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State
Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged JESSICA GRECO, D.O. (the “Respondent”),
License Number H77209, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.).
Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the Act:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and revocations
- Grounds,

(a) Jn general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(4) _ Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;

(7)  Habitually is intoxicated;
(8) Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article;

(9) Provides professional services:
(i) While under the influence of alcohol; or

(ii) While using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic
amounts or without valid medical indication[.]

One form of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine is providing
treatment to family members. The American Medical Association has addressed this in a
series of ethics opinions:!

Opinion 8.19 (2012) — Self-Treatment or Treatment of Immediate Family
Members

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their
immediate families, Professional objectivity may be compromised when an
immediate family member or the physician is the patient; the physician’s
personal feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical
judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered. Physicians may
fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medial history or may fail to
perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Similarly, patients may
feel uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an
intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family member.
This discomfort is particularly the case when the patient is a minor child, and
sensitive or intimate care should especially be avoided for such patients,
When treating themselves or immediate family members, physicians may be
inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training. If
tensions develop in a physician’s professional relationship with a family
member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such difficulties
may be carried over into the family member’s personal relationship with the
physician.

 

' The Board and the disciplinary panels may consider the Principles of Ethics of the American Medical
Association, but those principles are not binding on the Board or the disciplinary panels. See COMAR
10.32.02.16.
Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant
when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family
members may be reluctant to state their preference for another physician or
decline a recommendation for fear of offending the physician. In particular,
minor children will generally not feel free to refuse care from their parents.
Likewise, physicians may feel obligated to provide care to immediate family
members even if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake self-treatment or treatment
of immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings
where there is no other qualified physician available, physicians should not
hesitate to treat themselves or family members until another physician
becomes available. In addition, while physicians should not serve as a
primary or regular care provider for immediate family members, there are
situations in which routine care is acceptable for short-term, minor problems.
Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write
prescriptions for controlled substances for themselves or immediate family
members.

Opinion 1.2.1 (2016) - Treating Self or Family

When the patient is an immediate family member, the physician’s personal
feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment. Or
the physician may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical
history or to perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Physicians
may feel obligated to provide care for family members despite feeling
uncomfortable doing so. They may also be inclined to treat problems that are
beyond their expertise or training.

Similarly, patients may feel uncomfortable receiving care from a family
member. A patient may be reluctant to disclose sensitive information or
undergo an intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family
member. This discomfort may particularly be the case when the patient is a
minor child, who may not feel free to refuse care from a parent.

In general, physicians should not treat themselves or members of their own
families. However, it may be acceptable to do so in limited circumstances:

(a) In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no
other qualified physician available. In such situations,
physicians should not hesitate to treat themselves or family
members until another physician becomes available.
(b) For short-term, minor problems.

When treating self or family members, physicians have a further
responsibility to:

(c) Document treatment or care provided and convey relevant
information to the patient’s primary care physician.

(d) Recognize that if tensions develop in the professional
relationship with a family member, perhaps as a result of a
negative medical outcome, such difficulties may be carried
over into the family member’s personal relationship with the
physician,

(e) Avoiding providing sensitive or intimate care especially for a
minor patient who is uncomfortable being treated by a family
member.
(f) Recognize that family members may be reluctant to state their
preference for another physician or decline a recommendation
for fear of offending the physician.
On January 12, 2022, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this

DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

FACTUAL FINDINGS
Panel A finds:
I. BACKGROUND
lL. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on

February 6, 2014, under License Number H77209. The Respondent has retained
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Jessica Greco, D.O. :

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

I affirm that I have already provided access to and copies of patient medical
records to my patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.
I also agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office
of Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I
understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation
of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully, I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Jessica Greco, D.O.

Signature On File

NOTARY
STATE OF CL a
CITY/COUNTY OF ( : & | ( te V
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this ic \day of © y \ | ( A , 2022 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Jessica Greco, D.O., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal,

 
 
     
     

  

PAULA J LAWRENCE F
Notary Public - State of Florida &
Commission # HH 225742

jorded through National Notary Assn, §
continuous licensure in Maryland since that time. The Respondent's license is scheduled

to expire on September 30, 2022,

2. The Respondent is also licensed to practice medicine in Colorado and
Oregon.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in family medicine.

4. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent practiced telemedicine at a

telemedicine and virtual healthcare practice (the “Practice”),?
Ul. THE COMPLAINTS

5. On or about July 12, 2021, the Board received a complaint (“Complaint 1”)
from a patient of the Respondent (“Complainant 1”),

6. Complainant 1 stated that at a telemedicine appointment with the Respondent
on June 29, 2021, “it was though [the Respondent] was doing six other things at the same
time or was heavily medicated or intoxicated,” Complainant | reported, among other
things, that the Respondent repeatedly asked the same questions during the medical
appointment; took notes that were inaccurate, incoherent, and contained gross
misspellings; and failed to follow through and submit a prescription as she indicated she

would during the appointment}

 

2 To maintain confidentiality, the names of health care facilities, individuals and medications will not be
identified in this Consent Order.

* Complainant | attached documents to Complaint | which he stated were the medical records from his
telemedicine appointment with the Respondent.
7. On or about July 19, 2021, the Board received another complaint
(“Complaint 2”) from the Respondent’s treatment provider (“Complainant 2”) who
reported that the Respondent was receiving treatment for a condition that “impairs her
activities of daily living and, likely, her ability to practice medicine.”

Ill, BOARD INVESTIGATION

8. The Board conducted an investigation of the Respondent.

9. As part of its investigation, Board investigators conducted interviews of
Complainant 1 and Complainant 2, obtained the Respondent’s treatment records, received
the records from Complainant 1’s telemedicine appointment with the Respondent and
subpoenaed the Respondent’s prescription records. Board investigators also notified the
Respondent of the investigation, provided the Respondent a copy of Complaint 1 and
requested a written response.

Interview of Complainant 1

10. On or around August 10, 2021, Board investi gators conducted an under-oath
interview of Complainant }.

11, Complainant 1 described his virtual telemedicine appointment with the
Respondent as “extremely bizarre” where the Respondent “looked like she wasn’t there.”

Complainant | stated that the Respondent asked only a few questions but asked those same

 

“Complainant 2 stated that Complaint 2 was pursuant to the duty to report under Maryland law, specifically
COMAR 10.32.22.03(B) which states, “A reporting entity shall inform the Board of an chance that has
been made, in whole or in part, because the reporting entity had reason to believe that the health care
provider: (7) Suffers from a physical, a mental, or an emotional condition or impairment that affects the
health care provider's ability to perform the individual’s medical or surgical duties; (8) Is habitually
intoxicated by alcohol or a controlled dangerous substance.”
questions four and five times. Complainant | stated that each time he would provide the
same answer, which would be followed by long periods of silence where he observed the
Respondent typing.

12. Complainant | further stated that the Respondent told him that she was going
to prescribe him a cough suppressant but never issued him a prescription, When
Complainant 1 obtained the telemedicine appointment records, the Respondent’s notes
stated that she intended to prescribe him amoxicillin.

13. Complainant 1 also stated that the Respondent inaccurately documented their
conversation during his appointment including, but not limited to, his symptoms and
COVID-test status and described the Respondent’s notes from the telemedicine
appointment as “gibberish.”

14. Complainant | also stated that he never experienced connectivity issues and
the Respondent never indicated that she was experiencing connectivity issues during the
telemedicine appointment.

The Telemedicine Appointment Records

15. Board investigators obtained the Respondent’s telemedicine appointment
records for Complainant 1 (the “Telemedicine Appointment Records”) from the Practice.

16. The Respondent’s Telemedicine Appointment Records contained
misspellings, grammatical errors, incomplete statements, and repeated phrases, at times in

succession, throughout the records.
Interview of Complainant 2

17, On or around July 23, 2021, a Board investigator interviewed Complainant
2. Complainant 2 stated:

a. She had treated the Respondent for approximately three (3) months,

and she last treated the Respondent on July 13, 2021.

b, The Respondent is struggling with a diagnosis that has become

“severe.”

c The Respondent was admitted to the emergency room multiple times
in the past month for treatment related to her diagnosis.
The Respondent’s Treatment Records

18. The Board obtained a copy of Complainant 2’s treatment records for the
Respondent (the “Respondent’s Treatment Records”).

19. The Respondent’s Treatment Records confirmed that the Respondent had a
condition that is likely to impact the Respondents ability to practice medicine safely and
competently.

20. Among other things, the Respondent’s Treatment Records referenced an
incident in June 2020 where the Respondent blacked out after “she accidentally ingested
medication and wine,” physically assaulted two family members, and was criminally
charged,

The Respondent’s Two Assault Convictions
21. The Board obtained records regarding the Respondent’s criminal record (the

“Court Records”).
22. The Court Records stated that the Respondent was charged with multiple
counts of assault and assault-related charges in Oregon.

23. The Court Records further stated that on April 15, 2021, the Respondent pled
“no contest” to two (2) counts of Assault in the fourth degree*® and was sentenced to one
(1) year of probation. The terms of probation ordered by the judge, included terms related
to alcohol.
The Respondent’s Three Admissions to the Emergency Department

24, The Board obtained the Respondent’s medical records and the related
emergency medical services (“EMS”) reports for the Respondent’s three (3) hospital
admissions on June 24, 2021 (the “June 24, 2021 Records”); June 27, 2021 (the “June 27,
2021 Records”); and July 14, 2021 (the “July 14, 2021 Records”), The Board also obtained
the Respondent’s employment records including, but not limited to, the Respondent’s
patient consultation list (the “Respondent’s Patient Consultation List”) which states the
dates and times of the Respondent’s telemedicine appointments with patients,

The Respondent’s June 24, 2021 Admission

25. The June 24, 2021 Records stated that the Respondent was taken to the

hospital after she was found in the bushes and stated that she had memory issues.

> On April 16, 2021, the Respondent self-reported her convictions for two (2) fourth degree assault
convictions to the Board.
26. The June 24, 2021 Records also stated, among other things, that while at the
hospital, the Respondent had a blood alcohol level of 370 mg/100 mL and medication was
found in her belongings.

The Respondent’s June 27, 2021 Admission

27, The June 27, 2021 Records stated, among other things, that:

a. EMS responded to the Respondent’s location at 5:55 p.m. after a
family member of the Respondent contacted EMS and reported that the Respondent
“ingested (sic) unknown amount of pills.”

b. Multiple medications were found in the Respondent’s bag.

c. The Respondent “stated that she worked, drank wine, and then was at
the hospital” and that she believes that she “blacked out.”

d. The Respondent was not discharged from the hospital until the
following day.

28. The Respondent’s Patient Consultation List states that the Respondent had
telemedicine appointments with patients on June 27, 2021, around the time of her hospital
admission.

The Respondent’s July 14, 2021 Admission

29. The July 14, 2021 Records stated that the Respondent was admitted to the
hospital after she was “found wandering around the streets” and stated that “she had a lot
to drink.”

30. The Respondent was found to have a “blood alcohol level of 240mg/100 ml

or more” and released the same day.

10
31. The Respondent’s Patient Consultation List states that the Respondent
conducted two telemedicine appointments on July 14, 2021, around the time of her hospital
admission.

The Respondent’s Prescriptions

32. As part of its investigation, the Board subpoenaed the Prescription Records
to review the Respondent’s prescribing practices.®

33. The Board’s investigation determined that the Respondent prescribed a
controlled dangerous substance (the “CDS”) to an immediate family member (the “Family
Member”).

34. The Prescription Records showed that the Respondent wrote the Family
Member prescriptions for the CDS ten (10) times between August 11, 2020 and June 18,
2021. Most of the prescriptions authorized refills.

The Respondent’s Interview

35. On or around September 3, 2021, Board investigators conducted an under-
oath interview with the Respondent. The Respondent stated:

a. Her telemedicine appointments occur “on demand,” she usually signs
in in the morning and signs off in the evening around 5 or 6 p.m., and she has twenty

(20) to twenty-five (25) telemedicine appointments each day.

* The Board obtained a report of the Respondent’s prescribing history through the Maryland Prescription
Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”), which the PDMP provided in response to a Board subpoena.

11
b. In the past month, she has “drank a little bit more than usual” and her
hospital admissions were due to “alcohol use.”

Cc. She is “working actively to improve things in [her] life and continue
to mot consume any alcohol and.,.weaning off [medication] actively and
considering...an intensive outpatient program or an intensive inpatient program as
a possibility to help [her] do those things.”

d. She wrote the CDS prescriptions for the Family Member, did not
coordinate care with the Family Member’s primary physician, and did not maintain
a medical record for the Family Member.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the foregoing findings of fact, Disciplinary Panel A concludes as a matter
of law that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); is professionally, physically or mentally
incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); habitually is intoxicated, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(7); is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic
or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(8); provides professional services while under the
influence of alcohol, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(9)(i); and provides
professional services while using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance, as
defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic

amounts or without valid medical indication, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(9\(ii),

12
It is, thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel

ORDER

A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of the Respondent’s license to

practice medicine, issued on September 21, 2021, pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2),

is affirmed and is TERMINATED as moot; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s medical license is SUSPENDED for a minimum

period of ONE (1) YEAR, beginning on the effective date of this Consent Order;’ and it

_ is further

ORDERED that during the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the

following terms and conditions:

(1) The Respondent shall not:

(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

" If the Respondents license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions

will be tolled.

practice medicine;

take any actions after the effective date of this Consent Order
to hold herself out to the public as a current provider of medical
services;

authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name
or provider number by any health care practice or any other
licensee or health care provider;

function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or
other medical care facility in the state;

prescribe or dispense medications;

13
(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.
(2) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for
enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
her release/consent;

(e) The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent
shall not withdraw her release/consent;

(f) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation
of this Consent Order;

14
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Jessica Greco, D.O.

Letter of Surrender
Page 4

Notary Public

My commission expires:

ACCEPTANCE
oe
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this Z4 5 day of Tu , 2022, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept Jessica Greco, D.O’s, PUBLIC SURRENGER of her license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly/ Executive Director “
Maryland Board of Physicidps
(3) Within SIX (6) MONTHS of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent is required to take and successfully complete a course in medical

ethics. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) the disciplinary panel wili accept a course taken in-person or over the
internet during the state of emergency;

(c) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal;

(e) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the minimum period of a ONE (1) YEAR suspension has
passed, and after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of suspension,
and upon a report from MPRP to the Board that the Respondent has complied with all of
the requisite referrals and treatment and is safe to resume the practice of medicine, the
Respondent may submit a written petition to the Board requesting termination of
suspension. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to
discuss her petition for termination. After consideration of the petition, and if the
disciplinary panel determines that is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of

medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel, and

15
the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on the
Respondent’s return to the practice of medicine, including, but not limited to, probation
and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel
determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to practice of medicine, the
suspension shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of
time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any
additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
Opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law J udge of the Office
of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, suspend the Respondent’s

license with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to

16
practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary pane! may, in addition to one or more of
the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is
further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ.

§§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6) (2014 & 2019 Supp.).

Signature On File
Christine A, Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians |

CONSENT

L

 

I, Jessica Greco, D.O., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

 

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

T assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges, I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

] acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all

17
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

V/2 7/2822 Signature On File

Date Jessica Greco, D.O.

NOTARY
7,
STATE OF *r\0(. a
city/ county oF _Cy\liey

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 24th day of Januar 2022,
before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared

Jessica Greco, D.O., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent

 

Order was her voluntary act and deed.
AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

  

Notary Public

Notary Public - State 0° Florida . |
Cees sun 41023 My Commission expires: ne 24 2083
my Comm. Expires Jun 24,

 

18
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

JESSICA GRECO, D.O. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: H77209 * Case Number: 2222-0012 A
. * * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of JESSICA GRECO, D.O.
(the “Respondent’”), License Number H77209, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland. Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), concluding that the public health,

safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.
INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:!

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the asserted facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
 

 

i
I
i
i
:
:
f

L BACKGROUND

L. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
February 6, 2014, under License Number H77209. The Respondent has retained
continuous licensure in Maryland since that time. The Respondent’s license is scheduled
to expire on September 30, 2022.

2. The Respondent is also licensed to practice medicine in Colorado and
Oregon.
| 3. The Respondent is not board-certified.

4. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent practiced telemedicine at a
telemedicine and virtual healthcare practice.

IL THE COMPLAINTS

5. On or about July 12, 2021, the Board received a complaint (“Complaint 1”)
from a patient of the Respondent (“Complainant 1”).

6. Complainant | stated that at a telemedicine appointment with the Respondent
on June 29, 2021, “it was though [the Respondent] was doing six other things at the same
time or was heavily medicated or intoxicated.” Complainant 1 reported, among other
things, that the Respondent repeatedly asked the same questions during the medical
appointment; took notes that were inaccurate, incoherent, and contained gross
misspellings; and failed to follow through and submit a prescription as she indicated she

would during the appointment.”

? Complainant | attached documents to Complaint 1 which he stated were the medical records from his
telemedicine appointment with the Respondent.
 

 

7. On or about July 19, 2021, the Board received another complaint
(“Complaint 2”) from the Respondent’s treatment provider (“Complainant 2”) who
reported that the Respondent was receiving treatment for a condition that “impairs her
activities of daily living and, likely, her ability to practice medicine.”?

HI. BOARD INVESTIGATION
| 8 The Board conducted an investigation of the Respondent.

9. As part of its investigation, Board investigators conducted interviews of
Complainant 1 and Complainant 2, obtained the Respondent’s treatment records, and
received the records from Complainant 1’s telemedicine appointment with the Respondent
(the “Telemedicine Appointment Records”). Board investigators also notified the
Respondent of the investigation, provided the Respondent a copy of Complaint 1 and
requested a written response.

Interview of Complainant 1

10. On or around August 10, 2021, Board investigators conducted an under-oath
interview of Complainant 1.

11. Complainant | described his virtual telemedicine appointment with the
Respondent as “extremely bizarre” where the Respondent “looked like she wasn’t there.”

Complainant | stated that the Respondent asked only a few questions, but asked those same

3 Complainant 2 stated that Complaint 2 was pursuant to the duty to report under Maryland law, specifically
COMAR 10.32.22.03(B) which states, “A reporting entity shall inform the Board of an chance that has
been made, in whole or in part, because the reporting entity had reason to believe that the health care
provider: (7) Suffers from a physical, a mental, or an emotional condition or impairment that affects the
health care provider’s ability to perform the individual’s medical or surgical duties; (8) Is habitually
intoxicated by alcohol or a controlled dangerous substance.”
 

questions four and five times. Complainant | stated that each time he would provide the
same answer, which would be followed by long periods of silence where he observed the
Respondent typing.

- 10, Complainant | further stated that the Respondent told him that she was going
to prescribe him a cough suppressant but never issued him a prescription. When
Complainant 1 obtained the telemedicine appointment records, the Respondent’s notes
stated that she intended to prescribe him amoxicillin.

13. | Complainant 1 also stated that the Respondent inaccurately documented their
conversation during his appointment including, but not limited to, his symptoms and
COVID-test status and described the Respondent’s notes from the telemedicine
appointment as “gibberish.”

14. Complainant 1 also stated that he never experienced connectivity issues and
the Respondent never indicated that she was experiencing connectivity issues during the
telemedicine appointment.

The Telemedicine Appointment Records

15. Board investigators obtained the Respondent’s Telemedicine Appointment
Records with Complainant 1.

16. The Respondent’s Telemedicine Appointment Records contained
misspellings, grammatical errors, incomplete statements, and repeated phrases, at times in

succession, throughout the records.
 

Interview of Complainant 2

7, On or around July 23, 2021, a Board investigator interviewed Complainant
2. Complainant 2 stated:

a. She had treated the Respondent for approximately three (3) months

and she last treated the Respondent on July 13, 2021.

b. The Respondent is struggling with a diagnosis that has become

“severe.”

c. The Respondent was admitted to the emergency room multiple times
in the past month for treatment related to her diagnosis.
The Respondent’s Medical Records

18. The Board obtained a copy of Complainant 2’s treatment records for the
Respondent (the “Respondent’s Treatment Records”).

19. The Respondent’s Treatment Records confirmed that the Respondent had a
condition that is likely to impact the Respondent’s ability to practice medicine safely and
competently.

20. Among other things, the Respondent’s Treatment Records referenced an
incident in June 2020 where the Respondent blacked out after “she accidentally ingested
medication and wine,” physically assaulted two family members, and was criminally
charged.

The Respondent’s Two Assault Convictions

21. The Board obtained records regarding the Respondent’s criminal record.
