IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

CHARLES AVETIAN, D.O. * STATE BOARD OF
RESPONDENT * PHYSICIANS
License Number: H79214 * Case Number: 2218-0041

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER
BACKGROUND

The Maryland Board of Physicians (the “Maryland Board”) received information
that Charles Avetian, D.O. (the “Respondent’’), License Number: H79214, was
disciplined by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of State Board of
Osteopathic Medicine (the “Pennsylvania Board”). In an Order dated August 9, 2017, the
Pennsylvania Board disciplined the Respondent by suspending the Respondent’s license
with terms and conditions.

Based on the above referenced Pennsylvania Board sanction, the Maryland Board
has grounds to charge the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), under H. O. § 14-404(a):

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(21) Is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary
authority or convicted or disciplined by a court of
any state or country or disciplined by any branch of
the United States uniformed services or the

Veteran’s Administration for an act that would be
grounds for disciplinary action under this section,
The Maryland Board has determined that the acts for which the Respondent was
disciplined in Pennsylvania would be grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-
404(a). The grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-404(a) are as follows:

3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review

for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical

facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this State;

Based on the action taken by the Pennsylvania Board, the Respondent agrees to
enter into this Consent Order with the Maryland Board of Physicians, consisting of
Procedural Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order of reciprocal
action.

I. FINDINGS OF FACT
The Board finds the following:

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent is a physician licensed to
practice in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed in Maryland on
or about March 18, 2015.

2. By Order dated August 9, 2017, the Pennsylvania Board disciplined the
Respondent by Suspending the Respondent’s license with terms and conditions. The
Pennsylvania Board found that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct when
he authorized barbiturate prescriptions to individuals across the United States by use of
customer internet questionnaires and without benefit of a physical examination or a

detailed medical history.
A copy of the Pennsylvania Board Order is attached hereto.
Il. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Maryland Board concludes as a
matter of law that the disciplinary action taken by the Pennsylvania Board against the
Respondent was for an act or acts that would be grounds for disciplinary action under
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii)and(22) had those offenses been committed in this state.

Il. ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland be and is hereby SUSPENDED until such time as the Pennsylvania Board
stays the suspension and imposes probation subject to the following terms and conditions:
ORDERED that:

a. The Respondent shall remain in compliance with the terms and conditions
of the August 9, 2017 Pennsylvania Board Order;

b. The Maryland Order shall remain in effect until the Respondent has
satisfied the terms and conditions of the Pennsylvania Board Order of August 9, 2017 and
provides proof of termination of the Order;

c. If the Respondent fails to comply with any of the terms of this Consent
Order, that failure may constitute a violation of the Order and, after notice and hearing,

the Maryland Board or a Board panel, may suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license;

and be it further;
ORDERED that this CONSENT ORDER is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant

to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§4-101 through 4-601 (2014).

(o/iz/zo17 Oustrrf- Piet
Date Christine A. Farrelly

 

Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians
CONSENT

I, Charles Avetian, M.D., acknowledge that I have had the opportunity to consult
with counsel before signing this document. By this Consent, I admit to the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law, and I agree and accept to be bound by this Consent Order
and its conditions and restrictions. I waive any rights I may have had to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.

I acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to
all other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I acknowledge the
legal authority and the jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue
and enforce this Consent Order. I also affirm that I am waiving my right to appeal any
adverse ruling of the Board that might have followed any such hearing.

I sign this Consent Order after having had an opportunity to consult with counsel,

without reservation, and I fully understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
 

terms of this Consent Order. I voluntarily sign this Consent Order, and understand its
meaning and effect.

re Cle a
Date CharlesAvetidn, D.O.

Respondent

  

 

sTATE OF Nelo One

CITY/COUNTY OF NQw CaSk\u

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this \ ) day of | \ Anlae Y , 2017, before

me, the subscriber, a Notary Public for the State and City/County aforesaid, personally
appeared Charles Avetian, D.O., and made oath in due form of law that the execution of
the foregoing Consent Agreement was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and my notarial seal

Ke Public my)

KRISTINA MARIE RAMIREZ
NOTARY PUBLIC

STATE OF DELAWARE
My Commission Expires June 14, 2018

MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:

Hann V4 LHe

       
   
