IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

CHARLES AVETIAN, D.O. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
RESPONDENT * OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: H79214 * Case Number: 7718-0042

FRIAR RR RRR RAR KR RRR RR RRR RRR KKK RRR KE

ORDER STAYING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION

On October 12, 2017 the Maryland Board of Physicians (the ““Board”) and Charles
Avetian, D.O. entered into a public Consent Agreement in which Dr. Avetian’s license to
practice medicine was suspended until the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of State
Board of Osteopathic Medicine (the “Pennsylvania Board”) reinstated his license. The Board’s
action was taken pursuant to section 14-404(a)(21) of the Health Occupations Article, which
authorizes the Board to discipline a licensee if the licensee is disciplined by another licensing or
disciplinary authority for an act that would be grounds under section 14-404 of the Health
Occupations Article. On September 27, 2017 the Pennsylvania Board stayed Dr. Avetian’s
suspension and he was placed on probation with terms and conditions.! Thus, it is hereby

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the Consent Order entered into by the
Maryland Board and Dr. Avetian, dated October 12, 2017, is hereby STAYED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Avetian is placed on PROBATION; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Avetian shall comply with all terms and conditions of the

September 27, 2017 Pennsylvania Order, attached as Attachment A; and it is further

' The Board’s probation unit did not receive information that the Respondent’s suspension was stayed with the
Pennsylvania Board until October 30, 2017.
ORDERED that this Order will remain in effect and Dr. Avetian will remain on
probation until he has satisfied the terms and conditions of the Pennsylvania Order and provides
proof that the Pennsylvania Order has been terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Avetian fails to comply with this Order after notice and opportunity
to be heard, the Board or Board Panel may reprimand Dr. Avetian, place Dr. Avetian on an
additional period of probation or suspend or revoke Dr. Avetian’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland. The Board or Board Panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth
above impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Avetian; and it is further

ORDERED that this ORDER is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to the Public Information

Act §§ 4-101 — 4-601 of the General Provisions Article, Annotated Code of Maryland.

    
  

Jo7/z017 )

ate Christine A. Farrel
Executive Director
Maryland Board of Physicians
MANDATORY CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION

c. Respondent shal] attend and successfully complete at least twenty (20)
hours of continuing medical education (“CME”) in the subjects of medical record
keeping and prescribing practices,

d, Respondent shall submit acceptable proof of successfil completion of
the required CME coursework to the Board Administrator no later than January |
2016, Respondent shall note the file number and docket number of this matter on

any documentation submitted to:

Aaron Hollinger, Board Administrator
2601 N. 3rd Street

P.O, Box 2649

Harrisburg, PA 17105-2649

  

e. Acceptable proof of completion of the required continuing medical
education shall consist of an official school transcript, a certificate or letter of
completion prepared by the sponsor of the course or a printout prepared by the
sponsor indicating the completed courses, Proof shall contain course titles,
completion dates, final grade (if course is graded), and number of class hours or
continuing professional education credits awarded, Acceptable proof shall not
consist of receipts, course outlines or agendas, cancelled checks, payment
acknowledgments, or self-prepared records, among other documents.

f. To the extent that the course requires Respondent to pass an
examination in order for Respondent to be eligible for the continuing education
credits, Respondent must take and successfully pass such examination for the

course to satisfy the requirement of this Order.

a
g. Respondent shall bear the responsibility of all costs incurred by
Respondent in complying with the terms of this Order, including production of
records.

h, Respondent's failure to timely submit acceptable proof of successful
completion of the requited continuing medica! education shall constitute a

‘violation of this Consent Agreement and Order.

The additional hours of remedial education in this Order shall be
completed in addition to the hours that Respondent shall take in this or subsequent
biennial reporting periods for the renewal of his license

SUSPENSION

j. Respondent's license to practice as an osteopathic physician &
surgeon in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, along with any other licenses,
registrations, certificates, approvals, authorizations, or permits (hereinafter
referred to collectively as “authorizations to practice the profession”) issued by
the Board to Respondent at the time this Consent Agreement is adopted by the
Board are hereby SUSPENDED for a period of two (2) years,

k. Respondent shall, within ten (10) days of the beginning of any period
of active suspension, surrender his wall certificate, biennial renewal certificate
and wallet card (or notarized affidavit of their loss. or destruction) by mailing
them to:

Ashley B. Goshert

Prosecuting Attorney

Bureau of Professional and Occupational Affairs
P.O. Box 2649

or by delivering them in person at:
Bureau of Professional and Occupational A ffairs
One Penn Center

2601 North 3rd St.

Narrisburg, Pennsylvania

I. Upon the effective date of the Consent Agreement, and during any
period of active suspension, Respondent shall cease and desist from practicing as
an osteopathic physician & surgeon, and shall not represent himself as a Board
licensee in any matter during any period of active suspension.

ni. Respondent is advised that if the period of active suspension continues
past the end of the current renewal period, prior to Respondent’s license being
reinstated, Respondent will be required to comply with the requirements for
renewal of his license in effect at that time.

PROBATION

 

n, After a period of one (1) month active suspension, and upon petition
by Respondent, the suspension of Respondent's authorizations to practice the
profession shall be stayed in favor of PROBATION subject to the following
terms and conditions:

(1) Respondent is explicitly prohibited from 'remote
prescribing’ as defined herein, which would include, but is

not limited to, remote prescribing via telephone, video-link

or online,

(2) For purposes of this agreement, ‘remote
prescribing! is defined as prescribing, dispensing or
furnishing a prescription medication or a prescription-only

device to a person without conducting a physical
examination of that person or without having a previously
established physician-patient relationship. A proper
physician-patient relationship means that before the
issuance of a prescription, a physician performs a history
and in-person physical examination of the patient adequate
to establish a diagnosis and to identify underlying
conditions or contraindications to the treatment
recommended,

(3) Respondent shall abide by and obey all laws of
the United States, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and
its political subdivisions and all rules and regulations and
laws pertaining to the practice as an osteopathic physician
& surgeon in this Commonwealth or any other state or
jurisdiction in which Respondent holds an authorization to
practice the profession, Provided, however, summary
traffic violations shall not constitute a violation of this
Order;

(4) Respondent shall at all times cooperate with the
Burcau of Professional and Occupational Affairs
("Bureau"), any of its agents or employees and the Bureau
of Enforcement and Investigation ("BEI") and its agents
and employees, in the monitoring, supervision and

investigation of Respondent's compliance with the terms
and conditions of this Order, including Respondent causing
to be submitted at his own expense written reports, records
and verifications of actions that may be required by the
Bureau, BEI or any of its agents or employees;

(5S) Respondent's failure to fully cooperate with and
successfully comply with the terms and conditions of this
probation shal! be deemed a violation of this Consent
Agreement and Order;

(6) Respondent shall not falsify, misrepresent or
make material omission of any information submitted
pursuant to this Order;

(7) Respondent shall notify BEI, in writing, within
twenty (20) days of the filing of any criminal charges, the
initiation of any other legal action (civil or administrative)
pertaining to the Respondent's practice as an osteopathic
physician & surgeon, and/or the initiation, action,
restriction or limitation relating to Respondent by the
professional licensing authority of any state or jurisdiction.

(8) Respondent shall notify BEI by telephone
within seventy-two (72) hours, and shall notify both BEI
and the Board in writing within ten (10) days of any change
in the name(s) and address(es) of the place(s) at which

Respondent will practice as an osteopathic physician &
surgeon and a description of Respondent's duties and
responsibilities at such places of practice;

(9) Respondent shall notify BEI by telephone
within seventy-two (72) hours, and shall notify both BEI
and the Board in writing within ten (10) days of any change
in the Respondent's home address and/or telephone
number,

(10) If Respondent will be absent from the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for any period exceeding
twenty (20) days, Respondent must notify BEI, in writing,
of Respondent's absence and must provide a list of the
jurisdiction(s) in which Respondent intends to stay more
than forty-eight (48) hours. Respondent consents to the
release by the Bureau or BEI of any information or data
produced as a result of this Agreement or probation to the
proper licensing authority of any jurisdiction in which
Respondent intends to remain for greater than forty-eight
(48) hours.

(11) During any period of Active Suspension or
Ordered Probation, Respondent shall supply any current
professional employer with a copy of this Consent

Agreement and Order,

10
(12) Within fifteen (15) days of the date of this
Order, and within (15) days of the date of any change in
professional employer Respondent shall have his
professional employer submit to BEI written verification
that the professional employer a) has received a copy of
this Consent Agreement and Order, 6) understands the
conditions of this probation, and c) agrees to report any
suspected violation by Respondent of this probation. If
Respondent is or becomes self-employed, Respondent shall
submit a statement to that effect to BEI and shall produce
any requisite documentation to BEI to substantiate such a
statement,

(13) Respondent consents to the release by the
Bureau or BEI of any information or data produced as a
result of this probation to any professional employer or
prospective professional employer,

(14) Unless otherwise directed, Respondent, his
professional employer, and any other person needing or
required to make reports under this Order concerning
Respondent’s practice and contact information shall cause
those reports, data or other information to be filed with BEI

at:

i
Probation Compliance Officer

Bureau of Enforcement and Investigation
Box 2649

Hastisburg, PA 17105-2649

VIOLATION(S) OF PROBATION

0, Notification of a violation of the terms or conditions of this Consent
Agreement and Order shall result in the IMMEDIATE VACATING of the stay
order, TERMINATION of the period of probation, and ACTIVATION of the
entire period of suspension of Respondent's authorizations to practice the
profession in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as follows:

(1) The prosecuting attorney for the

Commonwealth shall file with the Board a Petition which

alleges that Respondent has violated any terms or

conditions of this Consent Agreement and Order other than

failure to complete the Ordered remedial education in a

timely manner;

(2) Upon a probable cause determination. that

Respondent has violated any of the terms or conditions of

this Consent Agreement and Order, the Board shall,

without holding a formal hearing, issue a preliminary order

vacating the stay of the suspension in this matter,

terminating the period of probation and activating the entire

period of suspension of Respondent's authorizations to

practice the profession, without credit for any period of

suspension stayed in favor of probation;
(3) Notification of the Board's Preliminary Order
shall be mailed to Respondent within three (3) days of its
issuance by certified mail and first.class mail postage
prepaid, sent to the last registered address on file with the
Board. If service by mail is unsuccessful, the
Commonwealth is authorized to attempt service by
personal service and/or publication of legal notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county of
Respondent’s last known address.

(4) Within twenty (20) days of mailing of the
notification of the Board's action, Respondent may answer
the Commonwealth's Petition and request that a formal
hearing be convened concerning Respondent's alleged
violation of probation, in which Respondent may seek
relief from the Preliminary Order activating the suspension.
The answer shall be set forth in numbered paragraphs
corresponding to the numbered paragraphs of the
Petition. Respondent shall admit or deny each of the
allegations sct forth in the paragraphs in the Petition.

Respondent shall mail the original answer and request for

hearing, and all other pleadings to

13
Office of Prothonotary
Bureau of Professional and Occupational Affairs
2601 N. 3rd Street

P.O, Box 2649

Harrisburg, PA 17105-2649

(5) Respondent shall send a copy of the answer,
request for hearing, and all subsequent filings in the matter
to the prosecuting attorney for the Commonwealth;

(6) If a request for a formal hearing is received
from Respondent, the Board shall convene a formal hearing
within forty-five (45) days from the date of the Board's
receipt of Respondent's request for a formal hearing;

(7) If Respondent files an answer and request for a
heating within the twenty (20) day period, the Preliminary
Order activating the suspension-shall remain in effect
unless and until the Board issues a determination favorable
to Respondent after holding the formal hearing;

(8) The facts and averments in paragraphs 3 & 4 of
this Consent Agreement and Order shall be deemed
admitted and uncontested for purposes of the hearing;

(9) If the Board after such hearing makes a
determination adverse to Respondent, the Board will issue
a Final Order activating the suspension of Respondent's
license and imposing any additional disciplinary measures

it deems appropriate;
ATTACHMENT A
(10) Ifa request for a formal hearing is not
received from Respondent within the prescribed twenty
(20) day period, the Board's Preliminary Order shall
become a Final Order twenty (20) days after the date of its
mailing;

(1) Ifthe stay is terminated, Respondent shall
still comply with all terms and conditions of probation
during the active suspension, other than those terms and
conditions pertaining to the active practice of the
profession. Continued failure by Respondent to comply
with the unaffected terms and conditions of probation shall
result in further disciplinary action against Respondent.

p. Respondent's failure to fully comply with any terms of this Order may
also constitute grounds for additional disciplinary action.

REINSTATEMENT TO UNRESTRICTED STATUS.

q. After the term of suspension/probation expires, Respondent may
request that his license be reinstated to unrestricted status by making such request
to the Board in writing. Respondent must include with his request a sworn.
affidavit indicating that: (1) he has complied fully with the terms and conditions
of this Consent Agreement and (2) he has had no further disciplinary action taken
against his license by the Board or against any other license to practice the

profession issued by another jurisdiction,
r. This Order constitutes disciplinary action by the Board and shall be
reported to other licensing authoritics and any applicable national licensing
databank as a disciplinary action by the Board.

s. ‘This case shall be deemed settled and discontinued upon the Board
issuing an Order adopting this Consent Agreement.

ADMISSIBILITY GF CONSENT AGREEMENT IN FUTURE PROCEEDINGS

6. Respondent agrees that if Respondent is charged with a violation of an Act enforced
by this Board in the future, this Consent Agreement and Order shall be admitted into evidence
without objection in that proceeding,

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NOTICE AND WAIVER OF HEARING

7. Respondent acknowledges receipt of an Order to Show Cause in this matter.
Respondent knowingly and voluntarily waives the right to an administrative hearing in this
matter, and knowingly and voluntarily waives the following rights related to that hearing: to be
represented by counsel at the hearing; to present witnesses and testimony in defense or in
mitigation of any sanction that may be imposed for a violation; to cross-examine witnesses and
to challenge evidence presented by the Commonwealth; to present legal arguments by means of a
brief, and {o take an appeal from any final adverse decision.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RIGHT TO ATTORNEY

8. Respondent acknowledges that he is aware that he has the right to consult with,
and/or be represented by, private legal counsel of Respondent's choasing and at Respondent's
expense when reviewing, considering and accepting the terms of this Consent Agreement,
Respondent had an opportunity to consult with and has been advised by Attorney Brian J.

McMonagle, regarding this Consent Agreement.

16
WAIVER OF CLAIM OF COMMINGLING AND OTHER CONSTITUTIONAL CLAIMS

9, Respondent expressly waives any constitutional rights and issues, such as
commingling of prosecutorial and adjudicative functions by the Board or its counsel, which may
arise or have arisen dwing the negotiation, preparation and/or presentation of this Consent
Agreement. Respondent specifically agrees that if the Board rejects this agreement, it may
assume that the facts and averments as alleged in this Consent Agreement are true and correct for
the limited purpose of recommending a sanction, based on those assumed facts, that would be
acceptable to the Board before hearing the case. In the event that the Board does assume the
facts and averments as alleged in this Consent Agreement are true for purposes of making a
recommendation as to an acceptable sanction, such action shall not constitute commingling of
prosecutorial and adjudicative functions by the Board or its counsel, and the Respondent
expressly waives any constitutional rights and issues related to alleged commingling, bias, or
violation of due process rights to have an unbiased and impartial adjudicator in any subsequent
hearing. Ifa hearing is subsequently held, neither this Consent Agreement nor the proposed
terms of settlement may be admitted into evidence and any facts, averments, and allegations
contained in the Consent Agreement must be proven at hearing unless otherwise separately
stipulated, This paragraph is binding on the participants even if the Board does not approve this
Consent Agreement.

NO MODIFICATION OF ORDER

10. Respondent agrees, as a condition of entering into this Consent Agreement, not to
seck modification at a later date of the Stipulated Order adopting and implementing this Consent

Agreement without first obtaining the express written concurrence of the Prosecution Division,

17
AGREEMENT NOT BINDING ON OTHER PARTIES

11, Lhe Office of General Counsel has approved this Consent Agreement as to form and
legality; however, this Consent Agreement shall have no legal effect unless and until the Board
issues the stipulated Order.

EFFECT OF BOARD'S REJECTION OF CONSENT AGREEMENT

12, Should the Board not approve this Consent Agreement, presentation to and
consideration of this Consent Agreement and other documents and matters by the Board shall not
prejudice the Board or any of its members from further participation in the adjudication of this
matter, This paragraph is binding on the participants even if the Board does not approve this

Consent Agreement,

ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 

13. This agreement contains the whole agreement between the participants; provided
however, that the captions printed in the various provisions of this agreement are for ease of
reading only and are not to be interpreted as forming any part of this agreement, There are no
other terms, obligations, covenants, representations, statements or conditions, or otherwise, of

any kind whatsoever concerning this agreement.

AGREEMENT DOES NOT PREVENT ADDITIONAL DISCIPLINE BASED ON OTHER COMPLAINTS

 

14, Nothing in this Order shall preclude the Prosecution Division for the Commonwealth
from filing charges or the Board from imposing disciplinary or corrective measures for violations

or facts not contained in this Consent Agreement,

VERIFICATION OF FACTS AND STATEMENTS

15. Respondent verifies that the facts and statements set forth in this Consent Agreement

are true and correct to the best of Respondent's knowledge, information and belief. Respondent

18
understands that statements in this Consent Agreament are made subject to (he criminal
penalties of 18 Pa,C.S.A. §4904 relating to unsworit falalfication to authorities,

toe ee, rettunnuunevoemesstss uA Wee gy “oy
AahisyB. Gostiset | ca [plies Avotian, D.O,

Proseotiting Attothey Respondent q
\
pATeD; oar 2.6/2! / /
vin | Se Qe
: Brion J, WeiMonagle "
Attomey for Respondent

DATED: 6 luff 7

 

fay 2S- 48l. 0977

ip

Loos-oo'd (x¥d) ZOlpL «= LLOz Lz gO
 

COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLYANTA
DEPARTMENT OF PE
BEVYORE THE STATE BOARD QF OSTEOPA CHIC MEDICINE

Conmigaweadth al Pennsylyama | 104204073

Bureau of Protessiunal and 1 File Nos: 10-53-09424

Cecupstiaaal Affairs : ~ 11-83-04 666
Vs.

Docket No: VET-S3-1L

Garo Charles Avetian, D.O.,
Respondent

5 ORDER
TAN 2
AND NOR’, ws day of Vey 9017, the STATE BOARD OF OSTEOPATHIC
MEDICINE (“Board”) adopts and approves the foregoing Consent Agreement and incorporates
the terms of paragraph 5, which shall constitute the Board's Order and is now issued in resolution
of this matter,

This Order shall take effect immediately,

BY ORDER:
BUREAU OF PROFESSIONAL AND STATE BOARD OF OSTEOPATHIC
OCCUPATIONAL AFFAIRS MEDICINE

A- i Oe ale

Tan J. Harlow Frank M. Tursi, D.O

Commissioner Chairman

For the Commonwealth: Ashley B. Goshert, Esquire
2601 North Third Street
P.O, Box 69521
Harrisburg, PA 17106-952)

For the Respondent: Brian J, McMonagle, Esquire

McMonagle, Perri; McHugh & Mischak, P.C.
1845 Walnut Street, 19th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19103

Date of mailing: BAT
NOTICE

The attached Final Order represents the final agency decision in this matter. It may be
appealed to the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania by the filing of a Petition for
Review with that Court within 30 days after the entry of the order in accordance with the
Pennsylvania Rules of Appellate Procedure. See Chapter 15 of the Pennsylvania Rules of
Appellate Procedure entitled “Judicial Review of Governmental Determinations,” Pa.
R.A.P 1501 ~ 1561. Please note: An order is entered on the date it is mailed. If you take
an appeal to the Commonwealth Court, you must serve the Board with a copy of your
Petition for Review, The agency contact for receiving service of such an appeal is:

Board Counsel
P.O. Box 69523
Harrisburg, PA 17106-9523

The name of the individual Board Counsel is identified on the Final Order.
 

COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BEFORE THE STATE BOARD OF OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE

In the Matter of the Petition for

Reinstatement of the License to Practice : Docket No.  /848°-53-17
Osteopathic Medicine and Surgery to
Non-Suspended, Probationary Status : File No: 17-53-10447
of Garo Charles Avetian, D.O, :

Petitioner ;

FINAL ORDER REINSTATING LICENSE
TO NON-SUSPENDED, PROBATIONARY

 

AND NOW, this ZR ‘day of September 2017, upon consideration of the Consent
Agreement and Order dated August 8, 2017, entered at file numbers 10-53-04073, 10-53-09424,
and 11-53-04666, and docket number1717-53-11, which suspended the license to practice
osteopathic medicine and surgery of Garo Charles Avetian, D.O, (Petitioner), license number
O0S007148L, for two (2) years and provided that after one (1) month active suspension Petitioner’s
suspension shall be stayed in favor of probation; Petitioner’s September 8, 2017 request for
reinstatement to non-suspended, probationary status; verification that Petitioner has complied with
and not practiced in violation of the Consent Agreement and Order dated August 8, 2017; and
without objection from the Commonwealth, the State Board of Osteopathic Medicine, hereby
REINSTATES the license to practice osteopathic medicine and surgery of Petitioner GARO
CHARLES AVETIAN, D.O., to NON-SUSPENDED, PROBATIONARY status subject to the
terms and conditions set forth in the Consent Agreement and Order dated August 8, 2017 entered
at file numbers 10-53-04073, 10-53-0924, and 11-53-04666, and docket number 1717-53-11, a
copy of which is appended hereto as Attachment “A” and incorporated herein by reference as if

fully set forth,
This order shall take effect immediately.

BUREAU OF PROFESSIONAL
AND OCCUPATIONAL AFFAIRS

ee

IAN J. HARLOW
COMMISSIONER

Petitioner’s Address:

For the Commonwealth:
Board Counsel:

Date of Mailing:

BY ORDER:

STATE BOARD OF OSTEOPATHIC
MEDICINE

Tow. fac [oan A

 

FRANK M. TURSI, D.O.
CHAIRPERSON

Garo Charles Avetian, D.O.
2 Mill Court

Springton Pointe Estates
Newtown Square, PA 19073

Ashley B, Goshert, Esquire
Wesley J, Rish, Esquire

Sp 21,2217
Attachment A
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA Pen pain ces,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE pees Ts

BEFORE THE STATE BOARD OF OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE: oe
u. pest

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 10-53-04073

Bureau of Professional and File Nos.: 10-53-09424

Occupational Affairs ‘ 11-53-04606
vs,

Garo Charles Avetian, D.O., Docket No: 1717-53-11
Respondent

CONSENT AGREEMENT AND ORDER

 

PARTIES
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of State, Bureau of Professional and
Occupational Affairs ("Commonwealth") and Garo Charles Avetian, D.O. (“Respondent”)
stipulate as follows in settlement of the above-captioned case.

APPLICABLE LAW
1, This matter is before the State Board of Osteopathic Medicine ("Board") pursuant to

the Osteopathic Medical Practice Act, Act of October S, 1978, P.L, 1109, No. 261, ("Act"), as
amended, 63 P.S, §§ 263-271,17; the Medical Care Availability and Reduction of Error
("Meare") Act, Act of March 20, 2002, P.L. 154, No. 13, as amended, 40 P.S. §§ 1303.101-
1303.910; and/or the Act of July 2, 1993, P.L. 345, No. 48 (“ACT 48”), as amended, 63 P.S, §§
2201-2207.
LICENSURE STATUS

2. Atall relevant and material times, Respondent held the following license to practice
as an osteopathic physician & surgeon in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania: license no.
08007148L, which was originally issued on July 1, 1990, and which is currently set to expire on

October 31, 2016,
STIPULATED FACTS:
3, The Respondent admits that the following allegations are true:

a. Absent further Board action, Respondent's license may be continually
reactivated, renewed, or reinstated upon the filing of the appropriate
documentation and payment of the necessary fees,

b. Respondent's last known office address, as on file with the Board is: 2
Mill Court, Springton Pointe Estates, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania 19073.

c. The United States Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) and
United States Department of Justice investigated individuals and employees
related to an internet pharmacy called White Eagle Pharmacy, which was located
in Oklahoma.

d. As a result of the aforementioned investigation, the DEA disclosed
that thousands of prescriptions were being issued by Respondent under his
Pennsylvania Osteopathic Medical License.

e, Specifically, a review of the White Eagle Pharmacy dispensing and
shipping records revealed that Respondent authorized 452 butalbital prescriptions
from the period of late June 2009 to October 2009.

f. The prescriptions issued by Respondent were based on an internet
questionnaire.

g. Respondent used a website to collect customer/patient information that
did not allow for traditional patient-physician interaction.

h. Respondent failed to perform a physical examination on any of the

patients for whom he issued the aforementioned prescriptions.
i. The vast majority of the aforementioned butalbital prescriptions were
for headache pain,

j. The symptom of headache pain may be a sign or symptom of a serious
underlying medical condition that could be missed absent a physical examination,

k. Respondent’s actions of prescribing medications without performing a
complete medical history and physical or ensuring that a history and physical be
performed as soon as possible deviates from the acceptable and prevailing
standards of medical care.

ALLEGED VIOLATIONS

 

4. The Commonwealth alleges that the Board is authorized ta suspend, revoke, or
otherwise restrict Respondent's license under Sections 11(c) and 15(a) of the Act, 63 P.S, §§
271,V1(c) & 271.15(a); and/or impose a civil penalty upon Respondent under Sections 1 1(c) and
15(a) of the Act, 63 P.S. §§ 271.11 (c) & 271,15(a), and /or Section 5(b)(4) of ACT 48, 63 P.S. §
2205(b)¢4); and/or impose the costs of investigation upon Respondent under Section 5(b)(5) of
ACT 48, 63 PS, § 2205(b)(5), because Respondent violated the Act at:

a. Section 15(a)(8), 63 P.S. § 271.15(a)(8), in that Respondent engaged

in unprofessional conduct when he authorized barbiturate prescriptions to

individuals across the United States by use of customer inlernet questionnaires

and without the benefit of a physical examination or a detailed medical history.

PROPOSED ORDER

5. The parties, intending to be legally bound, consent to the issuance of the following
Order in settlement of this matter:

a. The Board finds that it is authorized to suspend, revoke, or otherwise

restrict Respondent's license under Sections 11(c) and 15(a) of the Act, 63 P.S. §§
271.11(c) & 271.15(a); and/or impose a civil penalty upon Respondent under
Sections 11(c) and 15(a) of the Act, 63 P.S. §§ 271.1 1(c) & 271,15(a), and/or
Section 5(b)(4) of ACT 48, 63 P.S. § 2205(b)(4); and/or impose the costs of
investigation upon Respondent under Section 5(b)(5) of ACT 48, 63 P.S. §
2205(b)(5), because Respondent violated the Act at:
(1) Section 15(a)(8), 63 P.S. § 271,15(a)(8), in that

Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct when he

authorized barbiturate prescriptions {o individuals across

the United States by use of customer internet questionnaires

and without the benefit of a physical examination or a

detailed medical history.

GOSTS OF INVESTIGATION

b. An assessment for the COSTS OF INVESTIGATION of five
hundred forty-three dollars and thirty-six cents ($543.36) is levied upon
Respondent. Respondent shall tender the full sum of five hundred forty-three
dollars and thirty-six cents ($543.36) with this executed Consent Agreement and
shall be paid by certified check, cashier’s check, attorney's check, or money order
issued by a usual, customary, and reputable issuer (e.g. U.S. Postal Money Order,
Western Union Money Order, etc.), Payment shall be valid for a period of at least
180 days and shall be made payable to the "Commonwealth of Pennsylvania."
Respondent agrees that payment shall only be made by one of the methods
indicated above and shall not be made by uncertified personal or corporate check,
Payment of the costs of investigation and payment of the civil penalty may be

combined into a single payment instrument.
