Virgil W. McMillion, DO

Date: Tae. L Zz 027.

Mark Olszyk, MD, Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: ”, Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Virgil W. MeMillion, DO License Number: H91843
Case Number: 2222-0103

Dear Dr, Olszyk and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md..Code Ann., Health ‘Occ. (“Health Occ,”
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number H91843, effective
immediately. 1 understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef
seq, and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that T am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”). .

I acknowledge that the Board received notice from the Interstate Medical
Licensure Compact (“IMLC”) that my Wyoming medical license was - summarily
suspended and that the Board initiated an investigation into the allegations. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution. J recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations
support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14~404(a)(1), (3)(ii), (24) and (36),
based upon the West Virginia Boatd of Osteopathic Medicine’s finding that I was
ineligible for the Letter of Qualification based upon my failure to report a pending
criminal investigation.

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the

 
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A -
RE: Virgil W. McMillion, DO ‘

Letter of Surrender
Page 2
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the. right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on.my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court,

I understand that the Board will advise-the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, I also understand that in the event 1 would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann, Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg, (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A. . :

I further recagnize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement, In the
event that J apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I uiderstand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked,

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attomey of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attomey prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have consulted with (and/or was represented by) an attorney prior to signing
this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland, I
understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. [ make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv tmilv vours. fom

Signature On File

_ Virgil W. MeMillion, DO

 
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Virgil W. McMillion, DO ;

Letter of Surrender
Page 3
. NOTARY
STATEOF_WV
CITY/COUNTY OF _ Vavinour

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2? day of Apri \ » 2022 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Virgil W. McMillion,
DO, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this:
Letter of Surrender was voluntary. :

  

OFFICIAL SEAL,
. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA
NOTARY PUBLIC
BONNIE THOMPSON
Aroaddus Hospital

AS WITNESS my hand and Natarial seal,
1 Healthcare Dr Phillip! WV 26416,

Notary Public 4 ,
My Commission Expiros Sopt. 27, 2028

My commission expires: Sept. 37, 20a0

 
      
    
     

ACCEPTANCE

A ot or .
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel, on this 4 day of Y Yik- ,2022,1, .
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Virgil W. McMillion, DO’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. :

Signature On F ile

Christine A. Farrelly, Excoltivg Director ()
Maryland Board of Physici

 
