 

Karl Stoffel

Date: be Loeb

Disciplinary Panel A
Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

RE: Surrender of Respiratory Care License
License Number: L0C382
MBP Case Number: 2016-0053A

Dear Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

| have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice as a respiratory care
practitioner in the State of Maryland, License Number L00382, effective immediately. |
understand that the surrender of my license means that | may not evaluate, care for,
and treat, including the diagnostic evaluation of, individuals who have deficiencies and
abnormalities that affect the pulmonary system and associated aspects of the
cardiopulmonary and other systems under the supervision and in collaboration with a
physician or otherwise engage in the practice of respiratory care in the State of
Maryland, as it is defined in the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act’),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ. Il”) §§ 14-5A-01 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.)
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel A's (Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the "Board").

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
March 9, 2016, Disciplinary Panel A voted to issued disciplinary charges against me
under Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-17(a)(3) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of
respiratory care), (10) (willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
respiratory care), (14) (knowingly makes a misrepresentation while practicing
respiratory care) and (18) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
respiratory care) of the Act. Specifically, it is alleged that violated the Act when |
charted full ventilation checks on several patients without first evaluating those patients.
The complaint further alleged that my supervisor observed my work flow on two
consecutive days, and during that time, observed me documenting full ventilation
checks on the patients without ever entering the patients' rooms. | recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
Karl Stoffel
Letter of Surrender
Page 2 of 4

and | acknowledge that these allegations support a conclusion that | violated the above
provisions of the Act.

| have decided to surrender my license to practice as a respiratory care
practitioner in Maryland to avoid disciplinary action as a result of the allegations against
me. In addition, | have decided that | no longer wish to practice as a respiratory care
practitioner.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further disciplinary action. | understand that by
executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which | would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in any response to any inquiry, that | have
surrendered my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in the event | would
apply for a license in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender is considered a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

| affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, | will present to the Board
my original Maryland respiratory care practitioner license number L00382 and my most
recent wallet-sized renewal card.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until Panel A or its successor
grants reinstatement. In the event that if | apply for reinstatement of my Maryland
respiratory care practitioner license, | understand that Panel A or its successor is not
required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose
additional terms and conditions. | further understand that if | ever file a petition for
reinstatement, | will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an
individual whose license has been revoked. | also understand that if | apply for
reinstatement, | bear the burden of demonstrating my professional competence and
fitness to practice respiratory care to the satisfaction of Panel A or its successor.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. | have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be
 

Karl Stoffel

Letter of Surrender

Page 3 of 4

represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice
respiratory care in Maryland. | understand both the nature of Panel A's actions and this
Letter of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. | make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Karl Stoffel

NOTARY SEAL

STATE OF MARYLAND
CITY/COUNTY:

r /) .
| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2b day of A Pere , 2016, before me,
a Notary Public of the State and City/County aforesaid personally appeared Karl Stoffel
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that signing the foregoing

Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

 
  
   

Notary Public jj, Lt/aw) 2rd

J,’
My commission expires: oy GAT
Karl Stoffel
Letter of Surrender
Page 4 of 4

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this | Gay of

 

2016, |, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Karl Stoffel's PUBLIC SURRENDER of his license

to practice as a respiratory care practitioner in the State of Maryland.

  
