 

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
Fred Avila, R.C.P. License Number: L00675
Case Number: 2221-0142

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-SA-16 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), | have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L00675, effective
immediately. ] understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of respiratory care in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, |
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice, based on
allegations that I intentionally capped the orifice of a patient’s tracheostomy, without a LIP
order and left the patient unattended. | have decided to surrender my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of
these allegations and due to my current retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant
to respiratory care practitioner that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that
these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(3)', (5Y,
(18), and (27)4,

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that

'[s guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care

2 Abandons a patient

3 Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory care performed in any inpatient or
outpatient facility, office, hospital, or related institution

‘ Fails to practice under the supervision of a physician or violates a supervisory order of a supervising
physician
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Fred Avila, R.C.P.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

by executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 er seq. (2014 Repl.

Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
| apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement: and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. | further understand that if I
ever file a petition for reinstatement, | will approach Panel B or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before
signing this letter surrendering my license to practice respiratory care in Maryland. |
understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. 1
acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,
Signature on File

} 0 ow _, RCP.

Date
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Fred Avila, R.C.P.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF MarylanL

eirvicounty or ul hyryeve Cih

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this yt day of ( tele , 2021 before me,
a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Fred Avila, R.C.P., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was voluntary.

   
 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

My, Bally
My commission expires: q| jy | 2b 24 Mery Qa
ACCEPTANCE
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this Zénd day ot x 6 He 2021, I,

 

Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Fred Avila, R.C.P.’s license
to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Bae Pcp Directo
Maryland Board of Physicians
