Anne M. Harter, RCP

May 24, 2017

Arun Bhandari, Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of Respiratory Care Practitioner License
Anne M. Harter, RCP
License Number: L00757
Case Number: 2017-0272

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice respiratory
care in the State of Maryland, License Number L00757, effective immediately. I understand that
upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or
without compensation, and cannot engage in the practice of respiratory care in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint from my former employer notifying the
Board that I was terminated from my employment for creating fraudulent continuing education
certificates for a co-worker and that the Board initiated an investigation into the allegations. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current health condition. I
recognize that for all purposes relevant to licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-5A-17 (a)(3) (Is
guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care), (10) (Willfully
makes or files a false report or record in the practice of respiratory care), and (26) (Fails to
cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of
Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Anne M. Harter, RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the National
Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this Letter of
Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license as if it were revoked.
I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same
extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel A.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my original
Maryland respiratory care practitioner license, number L00757, any renewal wallet cards, and wall
certificates.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to
grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the
disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and
reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been
revoked. I also understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my
professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel A or its
successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for any
reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the right
to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully
waived my right to be represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license
to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter
of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

AW fi-

Anne M. Harter, RCP
Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Anne M. Harter, RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATEOR MD

CITY/COUNTY OF _ Fteclencle
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this2?" aay of , 2017 before me, a Notary

Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Anne M. Harter, RCP, and declared and

affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary
act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Notary Public

My commission expires: \ a | DR

     
 

  

KEVIN KIM

Notary Public

Frederick cam
Marylan

My Gaitmnission Expires June 9, 2018

  

ACCEPTANCE

a. . 2G a Me 4 -
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 6 day of , 2017, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept Anne M. Harter, RCP’s PUBLIC SURRENDERof her license to

practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland.

 

    

Maryland Board of Physi¢fans
