SHEILA V. WILLIAMS, RCP

Date: Mane 15, 2020

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
Sheila V. Williams, RCP; License Number: L01472
Case Number: 2220-0059A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-SA-16, (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to permanently
SURRENDER my license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License
Number L01472, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I
may not provide respiratory care services or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot otherwise engage in the practice of respiratory care in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the
“Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of
the effective date of this permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of
my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State
of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
January 13, 2020, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §
14-5A-17(a)(1) (Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to obtain a license for
the applicant, licensee, or for another); §14-5A-17(a)(3) (Is guilty of unprofessional or
immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care); §14-5A-17(a)(10) (Willfully makes
or files a false report or record in the practice of respiratory care), Specifically, Panel A
alleged that: (1) I provided false information on my original Maryland application for
licensure as a respiratory care practitioner on March 23, 1992, by stating that I had never
pled guilty to any criminal charge, or been convicted of a crime, when I pleaded guilty to
murder in the 2" degree on March 14, 1982 in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, and
(2) between 1992 and 2018, I failed to provide a true and accurate response on
subsequent and numerous license renewal application questions which asked whether I
had ever pled guilty to any criminal charge, or been convicted of a crime. A copy of the
charges is attached as Attachment 1.
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Sheila V. Williams, RCP

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will
be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. 1 also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order
that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-
101 et seg. (2019 Repl. Vol), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice respiratory care in
the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be
represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice
respiratory care in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that { understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very taily yours,

Signature on File

cl
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Sheila V. Williams, RCP

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY
STATE OF Nard lan of
CITY/COUNTY OF _ Pan Wino ec
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Ql day of Or \_ , 2020 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Sheila V. Williams, RCP,

and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that Reade this Permanent
nei %y a

     

Letter of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.
AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

o Hore vo We Ww

Notary Public YW NeCUa ry)

«es . / ‘ fg. dey 2
My commission expires: 1 / 2D TX ac

ACCEPTANCE
dt a . fe fl :
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 2 day of Mry, 2020, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PERMANENT SURRENDER of the license of Sheila

V. Williams RCP, to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Bechunye Directér
Maryland Board of Physici
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

SHEILA V. WILLIAMS, * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS

License No.: L01472 * Case No.: 2220-0059A

* x * x * x ® x * * * * #

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND
RESPIRATORY CARE PRACTITIONERS ACT.

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
"Board") hereby charges SHEILA V. WILLIAMS (the "Respondent") with violations of
the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§§ 14-5A-01 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and Supp. 2019).

The pertinent provisions of the Act provide the following:

Health Occ. § 14-5A-17. Denials, reprimands, suspensions, and revocations ---- In
general.

(a) In general. ---- Subject to the hearing provisions of §14-405 of this title, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the

disciplinary panel, may deny a license to any applicant, reprimand any
licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license, if the
applicant or licensee:

(1) Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to obtain a license for the
applicant, licensee, or for another;

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of
respiratory care;

(10) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
respiratory care;
ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

 

The Board bases its charges on the following facts that the Board has cause to
believe are true:

1. The Respondent was originally licensed as a Respiratory Care Practitioner
(“RCP”) in Maryland on December 23, 1992, (License No.: L01472),

2. The Respondent’s RCP license expires on May 30, 2020.

3, On March 14, 1983, the Respondent plead guilty to 2"! degree murder in the
Circuit Court for Baltimore City and was sentenced to 15 years in prison, with all 15 years
suspended and the Respondent was placed on probation for 5 years with conditions.

4, The Respondent’s original application for licensure as an RCP was filed on
March 23, 1992.

5. Question 14 (e) on the Application asked:

Have you pled guilty or nolo contendere to any criminal charge, or have you
been convicted of a crime or placed on probation before judgment because
of a criminal charge?

6. The Respondent answered “No” in response to Question 14 (ce).

7. The Respondent submitted her most recent Renewal Application to the Board
on or about May 17, 2018.

8. The 2018 Renewal Application’s “Part II. CHARACTER & FITNESS”

section: Question “g” asked:

 

‘The allegations set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the alleged
charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence,
either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with these charges.

2
Have you pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any criminal charge, or have
you been convicted of a crime or placed on probation before judgment
because of a criminal charge?

9. The Respondent answered “NO” in response to the question.

10. Between December 23, 1992, and May 17, 2018, the Respondent has
renewed her license numerous times without providing a true and accurate response to the
application questions which ask whether the Respondent has ever plead guilty or been
convicted of a criminal offense.

Il. Board Staff interviewed the Respondent on July 9, 2019, regarding her
failure to report a prior criminal conviction on her original RCP application and subsequent
renewals.

12. During the interview the Respondent acknowledged that she failed to report
her 1983 guilty plea to 24 degree murder on her original RCP application and subsequent
renewal applications,

13, The Respondent claimed that she did not report the incident on the
application because it occurred years before she became a respiratory therapist, and she
had been advised that it would be expunged.

14. The Respondent stated that she did not think that it was her responsibility to

report the 1983 criminal conviction on her application for licensure.
Grounds for Discipline

15. The Respondent’s actions as described herein, in whole or in part violated
Health Occ. § 14-5A-17:

(1) Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to obtain a license for
the applicant, licensee, or for another; and/or

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of
respiratory care; and/or

(10) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice
of respiratory care[.]

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds for
action under Health Occ. § 14-5A-17 (a) (1), and /or (3), and/or (10), the disciplinary panel
of the Board may impose disciplinary sanctions against Respondent’s license, including
revocation, suspension, reprimand, probation and/or a monetary penalty.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION

A Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (“DCCR”) conference in this matter
is scheduled for Wednesday, March 11, 2020, at 9:00 a.m., before Panel A at the Board’s
office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215, The nature and purpose of
the DCCR is described in the attached letter to Respondent. If this matter is not resolved
at the DCCR, a prehearing conference and hearing will be scheduled at the Office of
Administrative Hearings 11101 Gilroy Road Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031,

The hearing will be conducted in accordance with § 14-405 of the Act and Md. Code

Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 e¢ seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & Supp. 2019).

4
4 13,2O2.6
‘Date

BRIAN E. FROSH

Attorney General of Maryland

  

Debra A. Smith

Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor

Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Health Occupations Prosecution

& Litigation Division

300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

(410) 767-1846
