IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

RODNEY DAILEY, RCP * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: L01419 * Case Number: 7720-0062
x x * x * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On April 28, 2020, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board

of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Rodney Dailey, RCP (the “Respondent”) with

violating the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioner’s Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-5A-01 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act provide:

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this title, a disciplinary panel,
on the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the disciplinary panel,
may deny a license to any applicant, reprimand and licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license, if the applicant or

licensee:

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of

respiratory care;

(7) Is addicted to or habitually abuses any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article;

(10) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of

respiratory care [.]

On July 15, 2020, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case

Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:

1 BACKGROUND

1, At all times relevant, the Respondent has been licensed to practice as a
respiratory care practitioner in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially
licensed to practice in Maryland on November 17, 1992 under license number L01419. The
Respondent allowed his license to lapse one time which resulted in his submission of an
application for reinstatement which was granted on November 13, 2008. The Respondent
has since renewed his license nine times; the most recent renewal was submitted on April
18, 2018. In these applications the Respondent answered “No,” to all character and fitness
questions related to the use of illicit substances. The Respondent’s most recently renewed.
license states that the expiration date is May 30, 2022.

2. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent has been employed as

a Pulmonary Function Technician at a Hospital! in Maryland.

1 For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and facilities involved in this case are not disclosed
in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and facilities referenced in this document
by contacting the Administrative Prosecutor.
 

3. On October 4, 2019, Panel B charged the Respondent under Health Occ. §
14-5A-17(a)(1)’, (3)°, and (10)*, in case number 2219-0167, based on the Respondent’s
failure to report his criminal history on his prior applications for licensure.

4, On January 6, 2020, the Respondent entered a Consent Order with the Board
as a resolution to the October 4, 2019 charges. The sanction agreed to in the Consent Order
included a reprimand, and the Respondent was placed on probation for a minimum of thirty
(30) days and was required to be evaluated by the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”).

5. On or about January 28, 2020, MPRP notified Board staff of aberrant
toxicology screening results> obtained from the Respondent. Based on this notification, the
Board opened an investigation.

II. BOARD INVESTIGATION

6. On or about January 29, 2020, Board staff sent a letter to the Respondent
notifying him of the January 2020 toxicology screening results and requesting a written
response to the test results within five business days.

7. On or about February 12, 2020, Board staff received the Respondent’s
written response. In his response, the Respondent acknowledged that the toxicology

screening results were accurate at that time. This admission and additional statements made

? Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(1) — Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to obtain a license for the applicant,
licensee, or for another.

3 Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(3) — Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care.

4 Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(10) — Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of respiratory care,
5 The results of the toxicology screenings will not be disclosed in this document but are available to the Respondent.

3
by the Respondent directly contradict the Respondent’s previous statements to the Board
during the investigation which preceded the Respondent’s entry into the Consent Order.

8. On or about March 16, 2020, MPRP notified the Board of another aberrant
toxicology test, the results of which are available to the Respondent.

9. On March 17, 2020, Board staff sent a letter to the Respondent requesting a
response to the March 2020 toxicology results.

10. On March 26, 2020, Board staff received the Respondent’s written response.
In his response, the Respondent offered his explanation for the most recent toxicology
screening results while denying any intentional consumption.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board
concludes as a matter of law that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional or immoral
conduct in the practice of respiratory care, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a) (3),
is addicted to or habitually abuses any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)
(7), and willfully makes or files a false report in the practice of respiratory care, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a) (10).

ORDER
It is, thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary

Panel B, hereby
ORDERED that this Consent Order supersedes the Order for Summary Suspension,

dated, April 8, 2020, and the summary suspension is hereby TERMINATED; and it is

further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice respiratory case is

SUSPENDED* for a minimum period of SIX MONTHS; and it is further

ORDERED that during the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the

following terms and conditions of the suspension:

(1)

The Respondent shall continue enrollment in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to
authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and
files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw his/her
release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to

6 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be

tolled.
ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the
Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his/her
release/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of
this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Consent
Order has passed and the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms
and conditions for the suspension, if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the
Respondent is safe to return to the practice of respiratory care, the Respondent may submit
a written petition to the disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s
license. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss
his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of respiratory care, the suspension will be terminated
through an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms
and conditions it deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but
not limited to, probation and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If
the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the
practice of respiratory care, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the

disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the
 

disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate;
and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice respiratory
care in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions
set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent

Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File
10/05 [2020
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Hepitivs ry

Maryland State Board ofPhysicians

 

CONSENT

I, Rodney Dailey, RCP, assert that I am aware of my right to consult with and be
represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any proceedings that
would otherwise result from the charges currently pending. I have chosen to proceed
without counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel is freely
and voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments
or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seg. concerning
the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.
I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other
substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and
substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.
I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and

meaning of its terms. Ss ign a tu re on F. i le
26

 

=z
Date Rodiley I ane \ SI

NOTARY

 

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this _7/ day of _ uly , 2020,
before me, a Notary Public of the State and City/County aforesaid, personally appeared
Rodney Dailey, RCP and made oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order

was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

Ellen M. Peterson
Notary Public
Baltimore County, Maryland
My Commission Expires

May 09, 2022 My commission expires: “/ Ye 7% OF, AID2.

 
