Devin W. O’Neill, R.C.P.
Date: |Z IS /Z017
Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
R.C.P. License Number: L05223
Case Number: 7718-0027A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that | have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L05223,
effective immediately, for a minimum period of one (1) year. | understand that
upon surrender of my license, | may not practice respiratory care in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II §§ 14-5A-01 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and
2016 Supp.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of
this Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that
| am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and
upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

| acknowledge that in 2017, the Board initiated an investigation of my
licensure after a Maryland health care facility reported that it had terminated my
employment for actions that would constitute violations of the Act. Panel A
subsequently voted to charge me with violating the Act.

Prior to the issuance of disciplinary charges, | entered into a Consent Order
with Panel A, dated September 1, 2017 (the “Consent Order’), in which Panel A
found as a matter of law that | violated the following provisions of the Act under
Health Occ. Il § 14-5A-17(a): (3) Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of respiratory care; (18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
respiratory care performed in any inpatient or outpatient facility, office, hospital or
related institution, domiciliary care facility, patient's home, or any other location in
this State; and (27) Violates a supervisory order of a supervising physician.
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

RE: Devin W. O’Neill, R.C.P.; License Number L05223
Letter of Surrender

Page 2

Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A reprimanded me and directed me
to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and “fully
and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP's referrals, rules, and
requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP.” A copy
of the Consent Order is attached hereto as Attachment One.

On or about September 21, 2017, | enrolled in the MPRP and pursuant
thereto, executed a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement where | agreed, inter alia,
not to use illicit substances, consume controlled substances or mood-altering
substances, obtained through prescription or otherwise, unless prescribed in an
appropriate manner for a legitimate medical purpose; and to undergo random
toxicology screens.

MPRP reported to the Board that on multiple occasions in October 2017, |
underwent random toxicology screens and had positive test findings, in violation
of my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. MPRP also reported that | failed to
undergo random toxicology screening on one occasion and also admitted to
engaging in acts that violated this Participant Rehabilitation Agreement.

On October 26, 2017, MPRP notified the Board that based on the above
findings, it discharged me for cause.

After receiving this information, Panel A, in an Order for Summary
Suspension of License to Practice Respiratory Care (the “Order’), dated November
6, 2017, summarily suspended my license to practice respiratory care. A copy of
the Order is attached hereto as Attachment Two.

In addition, the Board determined that | violated the terms and conditions of
the Consent Order in that on multiple occasions in October 2017, | underwent
random toxicology screens and had positive test findings, in violation of my
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement, failed to undergo random toxicology
screening on one occasion and also admitted to engaging in acts that violated his
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement.

| have decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these
allegations. | recognize that for all purposes relevant to respiratory care licensure
2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including
disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. The
Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol treatment records.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply
with any term or condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice
and an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be
given a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or Panel A determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Consent
Order, the Board or Panel A may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on
probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice respiratory care therapy in Maryland. The Board or
Panel A may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil

monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further
ORDERED that unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board's Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Provisions §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014).

yoy
040i Joon? Chistine

Date! Christine A. Farretly
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
  

CONSENT

|, Devin W. O'Neill, R.C.P., acknowledge that | have been apprised of my right to
counsel and have knowingly and voluntarily agreed to proceed without counsel before
entering into this Consent Order. By this Consent, | agree and accept to be bound by
this Consent Order and its conditions and restrictions. | waive any rights | may have
had to contest the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority

and jurisdiction of Panel A to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this
Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of

Disciplinary Panel B of the Board that might have followed after any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order, voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully

understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms of this Consent Order,

Wv\i\

 

9/017
Date Devin W. O'Neill, R.C.P.
Respondent
NOTARY
STATE OF _ A/ty"é7s)

zB

  

PC

 

GFPFY/COUNTY OF

te tykleats |

2017, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County personally

appear Devin W. O'Neill, R.C.P. and made oath in due form of law that signing the

foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

   

AS WITNESSE TH my hand and notary seal.
ot annTon "%,,
C
ATTACHMENT 2
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
DEVIN W. O'NEILL, R.C.P. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: L05223 * Case Number: 7718-0027
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE
RESPIRATORY CARE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of DEVIN W. O’NEILL, R.C.P.
(the “Respondent’), License Number L05223, to practice respiratory care in the State of
Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov't II ("State Gov't II") § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.) and Md. Code
Regs. (“COMAR’) 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that

the following facts are true:'

' The statements regarding the Respondent's conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the summary suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a
complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to
practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially
licensed as a respiratory care practitioner in Maryland on July 8, 2009, under License
Number L05223. The Respondent's Maryland respiratory care practitioner's license is
current and active through May 30, 2018.

2. In or around February 2017, the Board initiated an investigation of the
Respondent under Case Number 2217-0024A after receiving a Mandated 10-Day
Report (the “Report") from a health care facility (the “Facility”)? where the Respondent
was formerly employed, which stated that it terminated the Respondent's employment
as a respiratory care practitioner, effective February 7, 2017, for "deliberate inattention
to patient care, or engaging in any conduct detrimental to patient care, or the safety and
security of patients, employees, or visitors." Specifically, the Facility stated that the
Respondent violated Facility orders/policy in not checking and changing the
tracheostomy tubes on two patients while on duty as a respiratory care practitioner on
February 6, 2017.

3. After the Board conducted its investigation, Panel A voted to charge the
Respondent with a series of violations of the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners
Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. Il") §§ 14-5A-01 ef seq.
(2014 Repl. Vol.).

4. Prior to the issuance of disciplinary charges, the Respondent agreed to
enter into a Consent Order, effective September 1, 2017, in which Panel A found as a

matter of law that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under

? For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities will not be identified by name in this
document. The Respondent may obtain the name of any health care facility referenced herein by
contacting the assigned administrative prosecutor.
Health Occ. Il § 14-5A-17(a): (3) Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
respiratory care; (18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory
care performed in any inpatient or outpatient facility, office, hospital or related institution,
domiciliary care facility, patient's home, or any other location in this State; and (27)
Violates a supervisory order of a supervising physician.

5. Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A reprimanded the Respondent
and ordered him to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”)
and “fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP's referrals, rules, and
requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations,
and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP.”

6. On or about September 21, 2017, the Respondent enrolled in the MPRP
and pursuant thereto, executed a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement where he
agreed, inter alia, not to use illicit substances, consume controlled substances or mood-
altering substances, obtained through prescription or otherwise, unless prescribed in an
appropriate manner for a legitimate medical purpose; and to undergo random toxicology
screens.

7. MPRP reported to the Board that on multiple occasions in October 2017,
the Respondent underwent random toxicology screens and had positive test findings, in
violation of his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. MPRP also reported that the
Respondent failed to undergo random toxicology screening on one occasion and also

admitted to engaging in acts that violated his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement.
8. On October 26, 2017, MPRP notified the Board that based on the above
findings, it discharged the Respondent for cause.

9. Based on the above investigative facts, the Respondent presents a
substantial likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public health, safety and welfare.
The Respondent recently underwent toxicology testing in which on multiple occasions,
he tested positive for substances that are detrimental to providing safe and competent
care to patients.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board
concludes that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency
action, and that pursuant to State Gov't Il § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR

10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license is immediately suspended.
ORDER

IT IS thus by a vote of Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. II §
10-226(c)(2)(2014 Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the
Respondent's license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland is hereby
SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a
post-deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on
Wednesday, November 15, 2017, at 11:30 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at
4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further .

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten
(10) days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the
request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that upon receipt of this Order, the Respondent SHALL
SURRENDER to Board staff the following items:

(1) his original Maryland license L05223; and

(2) Any renewal, wallet card or wall certificate.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary
Suspension shall be filed with Panel A immediately in accordance with Health Occ. I! §

14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014).

gm : { Yeo
ov 201 CArcetine | Sir be,
Dat Christine A. Farrelly? Executive ste
Maryland State Board of Physicians

is

 
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

RE: Devin W. O’Neill, R.C.P.; License Number L05223
Letter of Surrender

Page 3

that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support
a conclusion that | violated the terms and conditions of the Consent Order, as noted
above.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. | do not wish to contest these allegations. |
understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to
contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a
formal evidentiary hearing at which | would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right
to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards, the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and
Protection Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry,
that | have surrendered my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I-will present to the
Board my original Maryland respiratory care practitioner license, number L05223,
any renewal wallet cards and wall certificate. | also affirm that | will provide access
to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of
the Health General article.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered for a minimum period of one (1) year, and unless
and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that | apply for reinstatement
of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel A or its successor has sole
discretion to accept or deny my petition or deny my petition for reinstatement; and,
if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the
disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the
integrity and reputation of the profession. | further understand that if | ever file a
petition for reinstatement, | will approach Panel A or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked. | also understand that
 

 

Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

RE: Devin W. O'Neill, R.C.P.; License Number L05223
Letter of Surrender

Page 4

if | apply for reinstatement, | bear the burden of demonstrating my professional

competence and fitness to practice respiratory care to the satisfaction of Panel A
or its successor.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. | have knowingly and willfully waived my right to
be represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to
practice respiratory care in Maryland. | understand both the nature of Panel A’s
actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and

comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,
> -
RA HWW, 2/8/17 Rep.
NOTARY

STATE OF Macy |.

CITY/COUNTY OF _B4 [toon

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this AF Gay of Le ewhe’ , 2017
before me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared
Devin W. O'Neill, R.C.P., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury
that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and Notarial seal.

BERSy,
got8tbiee,,
og 8. BUT, %%,
$ %,
aa See ele,
7 e %, ¢é
Notary Public FF got SS
= 2 eBEen $
se . . a f ER
My commission expires: os hes By Ru fF 8
Gy er
e
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

RE: Devin W. O’Neill, R.C.P.; License Number L05223
Letter of Surrender

Page 5

ACCEPTANCE
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 1ST ay of

2017, |, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Devin O’Neill, R.C.P.’s PUBLIC
SURRENDER of his license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland.

Chass ston A

Maryland Board of Ph

 

  
 

 

ATTACHMENT 1
 

 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
DEVIN W. O'NEILL, R.C.P. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: L05223 * Case Number: 2217-0024A
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

 

On August 9, 2017, Disciplinary Panel A (Panel A") of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) voted to charge DEVIN W. O'NEILL, R.C.P. (the
“Respondent’), License Number L05223, under the Maryland Respiratory Care
Practitioners Act (the “Act’), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. IP’) §§ 14-5A-
01 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.).

Panel A voted to charge the Respondent with violating the following provisions of

the Act under Health Occ. II § 14-5A-17:

(a) In general. - Subject to the hearing provisions of §14-405 of this title, a
disciplinary panel, . . . a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a
majority of a quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any
licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license
if the . . . licensee:

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of
respiratory care;

(18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
respiratory care performed in any inpatient or outpatient
facility, office, hospital or related institution, domiciliary care
facility, patient's home or any other location in this State;
[and]

(27) Fails to practice under the supervision of a physician or violates
a supervisory order of a supervising physician[.]
 

 

Prior to the issuance of charges, the Respondent agreed to enter into this public
Consent Order, consisting of Procedural Background, Findings of Fact, Conclusions of
Law, Order, Consent and Notary.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A of the Board makes the following Findings of Fact:

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed as a
respiratory care practitioner in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially
licensed as a respiratory care practitioner in Maryland on July 8, 2009, under License
Number L05223. The Respondent's Maryland respiratory care practitioner's license is
current and active through May 30, 2018.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as a
respiratory care practitioner at a health care facility (the "Facility")’ that is located in
Maryland.

3. On February 10, 2017, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
(the "Report") from the Facility, which stated that it terminated the Respondent's
employment as a respiratory care practitioner, effective February 7, 2017, for "deliberate
inattention to patient care, or engaging in any conduct detrimental to patient care, or the
safety and security of patients, employees, or visitors." Specifically, the Facility stated
that the Respondent violated Facility orders/policy in not checking and changing the
tracheostomy tubes on two patients while on duty as a respiratory care practitioner on

February 6, 2017.

' For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities, complainants, patients or individuals,
other than the Respondent, have not been identified in this document. The Respondent is aware of the
identity of all entities and individuals referenced herein.
 

 

4. After receiving the above Report, the Board initiated an investigation of the
Respondent. The Board's investigation determined that the Respondent was on duty as
a respiratory care practitioner at the Facility on February 6, 2017, and failed to check
on, and change the tracheotomy tubes of two patients for whom he was responsible,
despite supervisory/Facility orders that required him to change those tracheostomy
tubes during his shift on that date. The Respondent was aware of his responsibility to
change these tracheostomy tubes through oral report at shift change, orders in the
electronic medical records, and documentation on his report sheet, and pursuant to
supervisory orders/Facility policy.

5. The Board requested that the Respondent provide a written response to
the allegations that were referenced in the Report. In a letter dated February 24, 2017,
the Respondent acknowledged responsibility for his actions, stating that on February 6,
2017, he “failed to make rounds to a trach patients (sic) room to perform an assessment
on them."

6. The Respondent's failure to change the tracheostomy tubes of two
patients at the Facility on February 6, 2017, despite supervisory orders/Facility policy
requiring him to do so, constitutes a violation of the following provisions of the Act under
Health Occ. Il § 14-5A-17(a): (3) Is guilty unprofessional conduct in the practice of
respiratory care; (18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory
care performed in any inpatient or outpatient facility, office, hospital or related institution,
domiciliary care facility, patient's home, or any other location in this State; and/or (27)

Violates a supervisory order of a supervising physician.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. II §
14-5A-17(a): (3) Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of respiratory care;
(18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory care performed in
any inpatient or outpatient facility, office, hospital or related institution, domiciliary care
facility, patient's home, or any other location in this State; and (27) Violates a
supervisory order of a supervising physician.

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and
conditions:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program ("MPRP"). Within five (5) business days, the Respondent shall contact
MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for enrollment. Within fifteen (15) business
days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely
cooperate and comply with all of MPRP's referrals, rules, and requirements, including
but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall

fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology

screenings as directed by MPRP;
