IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
DEVIN W. O'NEILL, R.C.P. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: L05223 * Case Number: 7718-0027
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE
RESPIRATORY CARE

Disciplinary Panel A (Panel A’) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of DEVIN W. O’NEILL, R.C.P.
(the “Respondent”), License Number L05223, to practice respiratory care in the State of
Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov't Il ("State Gov't II") § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.) and Md. Code
Regs. (“COMAR’) 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that

the following facts are true:'

' The statements regarding the Respondent's conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice
of the basis of the summary suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a
complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to
practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially
licensed as a respiratory care practitioner in Maryland on July 8, 2009, under License
Number L05223. The Respondent's Maryland respiratory care practitioner's license is
current and active through May 30, 2018.

2. In or around February 2017, the Board initiated an investigation of the
Respondent under Case Number 2217-0024A after receiving a Mandated 10-Day
Report (the "Report") from a health care facility (the “Facility’)? where the Respondent
was formerly employed, which stated that it terminated the Respondent's employment
as a respiratory care practitioner, effective February 7, 2017, for "deliberate inattention
to patient care, or engaging in any conduct detrimental to patient care, or the safety and
security of patients, employees, or visitors." Specifically, the Facility stated that the
Respondent violated Facility orders/policy in not checking and changing the
tracheostomy tubes on two patients while on duty as a respiratory care practitioner on
February 6, 2017.

3. After the Board conducted its investigation, Panel A voted to charge the
Respondent with a series of violations of the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners
Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ. Il”) §§ 14-5A-01 et seq.
(2014 Repl. Vol.).

4. Prior to the issuance of disciplinary charges, the Respondent agreed to
enter into a Consent Order, effective September 1, 2017, in which Panel A found as a

matter of law that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Act under

> For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities will not be identified by name in this
document. The Respondent may obtain the name of any health care facility referenced herein by
contacting the assigned administrative prosecutor.
Health Occ. Il § 14-5A-17(a): (3) Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
respiratory care; (18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory
care performed in any inpatient or outpatient facility, office, hospital or related institution,
domiciliary care facility, patient's home, or any other location in this State; and (27)
Violates a supervisory order of a supervising physician.

5. Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A reprimanded the Respondent
and ordered him to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”)
and “fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP's referrals, rules, and
requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations,
and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP.”

6. On or about September 21, 2017, the Respondent enrolled in the MPRP
and pursuant thereto, executed a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement where he
agreed, inter alia, not to use illicit substances, consume controlled substances or mood-
altering substances, obtained through prescription or otherwise, unless prescribed in an
appropriate manner for a legitimate medical purpose; and to undergo random toxicology
screens.

7. MPRP reported to the Board that on multiple occasions in October 2017,
the Respondent underwent random toxicology screens and had positive test findings, in
violation of his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. MPRP also reported that the
Respondent failed to undergo random toxicology screening on one occasion and also

admitted to engaging in acts that violated his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement.
8. On October 26, 2017, MPRP notified the Board that based on the above
findings, it discharged the Respondent for cause.

9. Based on the above investigative facts, the Respondent presents a
substantial likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public health, safety and welfare.
The Respondent recently underwent toxicology testing in which on multiple occasions,
he tested positive for substances that are detrimental to providing safe and competent
care to patients.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board
concludes that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency
action, and that pursuant to State Gov't Il § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's license is immediately suspended.

ORDER

IT IS thus by a vote of Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. Il §
10-226(c)(2)(2014 Repl. Vol. and 2016 Supp.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the
Respondent's license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland is hereby
SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a
post-deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on
Wednesday, November 15, 2017, at 11:30 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at
4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten
(10) days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the
request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that upon receipt of this Order, the Respondent SHALL
SURRENDER to Board staff the following items:

(1) his original Maryland license L05223: and

(2) Any renewal, wallet card or wall certificate.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary
Suspension shall be filed with Panel A immediately in accordance with Health Occ. II §

14-407 (2014 Repl. Vol.); and it is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a PUBLIC

DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014).

 
  
  
  

   

MATL
Christine A. Farrelly!
Maryland State Board of

[i/ov jZ01
Dat

uy
