 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JAMES LEE, JR., RCP * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: L05215 * Case Number: 2220-0097

x * * x * * x * x x * * x
ORDER OF DEFAULT

On June 22, 2020, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged James Lee, Jr., RCP, with fraudulently or deceptively obtaining or attempting
to obtain a license, unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care, willfully
making or filing a false report or record in the practice of respiratory care, and failure to cooperate
with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel. See Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(1), (3), (10), and (26) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.). On October 7,
2020, the case was referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for an evidentiary
hearing.

On October 15, 2020, OAH mailed a Notice of Telephone Scheduling Conference to Mr.
Lee and the State, at their respective addresses of record, notifying the parties that a telephone
scheduling conference would be held on November 6, 2020, at 9:30 a.m. The Notice mailed to
Mr. Lee was not returned as undeliverable. On November 6, 2020, at 9:30 a.m., the ALJ called
Mr. Lee five times using the telephone number listed on Mr. Lee’s renewal application, but Mr.
Lee did not answer the phone and the voicemail stated that the voice mailbox was full and could
not accept any messages. After waiting approximately twenty minutes past the scheduled time for
the conference, the ALJ held the scheduling conference in the absence of Mr. Lee. The

administrative prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State.
 

 

On November 9, 2020, a scheduling order was issued, notifying the parties of the date,
time, and location of the prehearing conference, among other things. The scheduling order was
mailed to both parties at their addresses of record and the copy mailed to Mr. Lee was not returned
as undeliverable. The scheduling order informed the parties that the ALJ would contact Mr. Lee
at the same telephone number that was used at the scheduling conference unless he informed OAH
that another telephone number was preferred. Mr. Lee never contacted the OAH with a different
telephone number.

On November 6, 2020, the notice of telephone prehearing conference was mailed to the
parties at their addresses of record informing the parties that the prehearing conference was
scheduled for December 4, 2020 at 9:30 a.m. The notice mailed to Mr. Lee was not returned to
the OAH as undeliverable. The notice stated that the failure to attend the December 4, 2020
prehearing conference could result in the entry of an Order of Default against any party who failed
to appear.

On December 3, 2020, the ALJ notified the parties via email of a family emergency that
required postponing the prehearing conference. The administrative prosecutor responded to the
email and agreed to postponing the prehearing conference to December 7, 2020 at 9:00 a.m. Mr.
Lee did not respond to the email. On December 4, 2020, after the time of the originally scheduled
prehearing conference, Mr. Lee called OAH and spoke to a Docket Specialist. The Docket
Specialist informed Mr. Lee about the postponement and provided Mr. Lee with the new date and
time of the prehearing conference.

On December 7, 2020, the ALJ convened the telephone prehearing conference and called
Mr. Lee at the telephone number Mr. Lee provided on his renewal application. The ALJ called

Mr. Lee five times and on each occasion the ALJ left a message informing Mr. Lee of the ALJ’s

 
 

name, the purpose of the call, and that the ALJ would continue to call until 9:15 a.m. Mr. Lee did
not answer the phone on any one of the phone calls and after waiting fifteen minutes, the
administrative prosecutor moved for an Order of Default.

After the telephone prehearing conference concluded, the Docket Specialist informed the
ALI that Mr. Lee had called and stated that he was still awaiting the telephone call. Mr. Lee did
not ask for a postponement or provide a different telephone number where he could be reached.
The ALJ found that Mr. Lee had ample opportunity to answer the calls between 9:00 a.m. and 9:15
a.m. and that he failed to attend the prehearing conference.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “{iJf, after receiving proper notice, a party fails to attend
or participate in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the judge may
proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated by the
agency, issue a final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.” COMAR
28.02.01.23A.

On December 9, 2020, the ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order. The ALJ found that Mr.
Lee had proper notice of the December 7, 2020 prehearing conference and that he failed to appear
or participate in the prehearing conference. The ALJ proposed that the Panel find Mr. Lee in
default, adopt as findings of fact the statements set out in the allegations of fact section of the
charges and conclude as a matter of law that Mr. Lee violated Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(1), (3),
(10), and (26) in the manner set forth in the charges. The ALJ proposed that Mr. Lee be
reprimanded, ordered to pay a $500 civil penalty, required to complete his State and Federal CHRC
within 45 days to avoid further disciplinary action, and subject to any other disciplinary action that

the Board determines is appropriate.
 

The ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Mr. Lee, the administrative
prosecutor, and the Board at the parties’ respective addresses of record. The Proposed Default
Order notified the parties that they may file written exceptions to the proposed order but must do
so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed Default Order. The Proposed Default Order stated
that any exceptions and request for a hearing must be sent to the Board with a copy provided to
the opposing party. Neither party filed exceptions. On January 27, 2021, this case came before
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Board for final disposition.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel B concludes that Mr. Lee has defaulted and has not filed exceptions to the
ALJ's Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted from the ALJ’s Proposed
Default Order and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence:

1. Mr. Lee was originally licensed to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland on

June 30, 2009, under License Number L05215.

2. On or about May 29, 2018, Mr. Lee submitted an online renewal application using the
Board’s online renewal application process.

3. When a licensee completed the online application renewal process, he must check a
box stating that he has completed a Criminal History Record Check (“CHRC”) prior to
completing the online application renewal process. The licensee acknowledges in the
application that ifhe fails to complete the CHRC, he or she will face disciplinary action.

4. Prior to proceeding with the application, a pop-up screen appears that informs the
licensee that the Board may not renew a license if the Board has not received the
licensee’s CHRC information, which includes the licensee’s submission of the

licensee’s fingerprints to the Criminal Justice Information Services (“CJIS”) before
attempting to proceed with the renewal application. The pop-up notice also informs the
licensee that failure to submit CHRC information may result in disciplinary action.
5. Mr. Lee’s signed application contains two acknowledgments/affirmations by Mr. Lee

that he had completed a CHRC.

   

6. On May 30, 2018, Board staff received Mr. Lee’s State CHRC. It did not receive the
Federal CHRC. A representative from CJIS informed Board staff that Mr. Lee had not
submitted the necessary fingerprints to initiate the federal CHRC.

7. By e-mail dated March 29, 2019, Board staff informed Mr. Lee that it had not received
his CHRC because he had not submitted fingerprints necessary to initiate the federal
background check. Board staff attached the fingerprinting instructions to the email and
asked Mr, Lee to complete the federal background check. Mr. Lee did not reply to the
March 29, 2019 email.

8. By email dated April 5, 2019, Board staff again informed Mr. Lee that the Board did
not have his complete CHRC and to contact Board staff as soon as possible to avoid
disciplinary action against his license.

9. By letter dated July 29, 2019, Board staff informed Mr. Lee that he has not completed
a CHRC and that he was subject to potential disciplinary action. The letter requested
that Mr. Lee contact the Board within ten business days. Mr. Lee did not reply to the
letter.

10. By fetter dated January 2, 2020, sent to Mr. Lee’s address of record, Board staff
informed Mr. Lee that it has opened a preliminary investigation based upon his lack of

response to previous Board communications.

1

—

. Mr. Lee did not respond to the Board’s January 2, 2020 letter and has not provided

documentation to the Board to establish that he completed the CHRC.
 

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B finds Mr. Lee in default based upon his failure to appear at the OAH for the
prehearing conference scheduled for December 7, 2020. See State Gov't § 10-210(4). Based upon
the foregoing findings of fact, Panel B concludes that Mr. Lee fraudulently or deceptively obtained
or attempted to obtain a license, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-SA-17(a)(1); is guilty of
unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 14-5A-17(a)(3); willfully made or filed a false report or record in the practice of respiratory care,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(10); and failed to cooperate with a lawful investigation
conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(26).

SANCTION

Panel B adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ to impose a reprimand and a $500
fine. The Panel, however, is very concerned that Mr. Lee did not respond to the Board for almost
one year prior to the issuance of charges, and still has not completed the CHRC. Accordingly,
Panel B will suspend Mr. Lee’s license to practice respiratory care until the time when the Board
receives Mr. Lee’s completed federal and state CHRC.

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that James Lee, Jr., RCP, is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that, within six (6) months, Mr. Lee shall pay a civil fine of $500.00. The
payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board of
Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not renew

or reinstate Mr. Lee’s license if Mr. Lee fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; and it is further
ORDERED that Mr. Lee’s license to practice respiratory care in Maryland is
SUSPENDED until the time when the Board receives Mr. Lee’s completed federal and state
CHRC; and it is further

ORDERED that upon the Board’s receipt of the completed CHRC and payment of the
$500 fine, the disciplinary panel may administratively terminate Mr. Lee’s suspension through an
order of the disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and
Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File
04/049/202

Dat Christine A. Farretly, oe paesiat t)
Maryland Board of Physidiars iG

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5A-17.1, Mr. Lee has the right to seek
judicial review of this Order of Default. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within thirty
(30) days from the date of mailing of this Order of Default. The cover letter accompanying this
Order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made as
provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title
7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If Mr. Lee files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director

4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:

Stacey Darin

Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

 
