 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

RYAN W. HOLT, RCP a MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: L05891 Case Number: 2218-0013B
CONSENT ORDER

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board") voted to summarily suspend the license of RYAN W. HOLT, RCP, (the
“Respondent”), License Number L05891, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Govt § 10-
226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.) concluding that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

Panel B also voted to charge the Respondent under the Maryland Respiratory
Care Practitioners Act (the "Act"), Md. Code Ann., Heath Occ. Il §§ 14-5A-17(3) — is guilty
of unprofessional conduct in the practice of respiratory care; (4) — Is professionally,
physically, or mentally incompetent; (7) — Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic
or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article; (8)(ii)
— Provides professional services while: (ii) Using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article or any other drug that is in
excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication. (2014 Repl. Vol. &
2016 Supp.).

Prior to the issuance of an Order of Summary Suspension and charges, the
Respondent agreed to enter into the following Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order and Consent.
EINDINGS OF FACT

Disciplinary Panel B finds:

1.

At all times relevant, the Respondent was and is licensed to respiratory care in
Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice respiratory care in
Maryland on August 28, 2012. His license is scheduled to expire on May 30, 2018.
From October 10, 2012 until July 19, 2017, the Respondent was employed as a
respiratory care practitioner in a hospital in Maryland (“Hospital A”)."

The Respondents currently employed as a respiratory care practitioner at Hospital
B, also in Maryland.

On or about July 2017, the Board initiated an investigation after receiving from
Hospital A a Mandated 10-Day Report (the “Report”) that stated that the
Respondent had undergone mandatory employment-related urine screening, had
tested positive for a non-prescribed controlled dangerous substance and had
subsequently resigned from Hospital A.

The Board's investigation revealed that in September 2016, Hospital A had
referred the Respondent for a fitness-for-duty evaluation after his conduct raised
concerns that he was under the influence while performing his work duties.2

As a result of the evaluation, in or around October 2016, the Respondent entered
into an agreement with Hospital A’s employee assistance program. Under the

terms of the agreement, the Respondent was required, inter alia, to abstain from

' The name of facilities and individuals are confidential.
2 To maintain confidentiality, specific information regarding the Respondent's conduct will not be referenced
in this document.

2
the use of illegal drugs and the use of a prescription drug that was inconsistent

with the prescription. The Respondent was further required to be subject to

random drug testing for 12 months.
to On or about July 5, 2017, the Respondent tested positive for a non-prescribed

controlled dangerous substance.
8. On or about July 19, 2017, the Respondent resigned from Hospital A.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing facts, Disciplinary Panel B concludes that the public health,
safety or welfare imperatively require emergency action in this case, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-226 (c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.), Panel B also
concludes that the Respondent violated the following provisions of the Maryland
Respiratory Care Practitioners Act: Md. Code Ann., Heath Occ. Il § 14-5A-17: (3) — is
guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of respiratory care; (4) — Is professionally,
physically, or mentally incompetent; (7) — Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic
or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article; (8)(ii)
— Provides professional services while: (ii) Using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article or any other drug that is in
excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication. (2014 Repl. Vol. &
2016 Supp.).

ORDER

 

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel

B, hereby:
ORDERED that the Respondent's license to practice respiratory care is
SUSPENDED, subject to the following terms and conditions:
1, The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(‘MPRP’). Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter
into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with
MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;
2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested or required by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board, including disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP.
The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
treatment records;

3, The Respondent shall be responsible for ensuring that any treatment

provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and to the Board at least once every three
(3) months regarding his attendance, progress, payment of fees, and recommendations
as to the continuation, frequency, and/or termination of treatment. The Respondent shall
sign any consent forms required to authorize Disciplinary Panel B and the MPRP to
receive written reports from his treating mental health and health professionals or any
treatment providers.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if and when the MPRP finds that the
Respondent is safe to practice respiratory care and if the Respondent has complied with
conditions above, the Respondent may petition the Reinstatement Inquiry Panel to lift the
suspension of the Respondent's license. Upon reinstatement, Disciplinary Panel B may
impose conditions and additional terms on the Respondent's return to practice, including
but not limited to probation; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any terms or
conditions of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before
an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause
hearing before the Board or Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that if, after the appropriate hearing, the Board or Panel B determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Consent Order,
the Board or Panel B may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation
with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent's license to

practice respiratory care in Maryland. The Board or Panel B may, in addition to one or
more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent;
and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Respiratory Care
Practitioners Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01—14-5A-25, and all laws and
regulations governing the practice of respiratory care in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014 Vol. & 2016 Supp.)

 
     

11/20/20]
Dat Christine A. Farrelly:
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians
CONSENT

|, Ryan W. Holt, RCP, acknowledge that | was represented by counsel before
entering this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the purpose of resolving the issues
raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent Order and
its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to forego my
opportunity to challenge these allegations. {| acknowledge the legal authority and
jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this
Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of a
disciplinary panel of the Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the language,

meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

I [16 / (?
Date Ryah W. Holt, RCP
Respondent
 

 

NOTARY
STATE OF MARYLAND )
_CFPYICOUNTY OF Hac Vk A ~
i ( } \
| HISEBY CERTIFY that on this Ie day oY epee (0 )) 2017, before me, a

Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Ryan W. Holt.,

RCP, and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his

voluntary act and deed.
Wy,
WM AG-0.%
eee n%
Ov “Sy

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

KOO) a

lic

    
  

ty Ng

%

“ui X
Seta cea

C\

My Commission expires\,
