Date: -| 2-2

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4th Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
James Scott Chancey, R.C.P.
License Number: L06190
Case Number: 2219-0103A

Dear Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) § 14-403
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L06190, effective immediately.
I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not engage in the practice of respiratory care
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Respiratory Care Practitioners
Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of
the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means
that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on February 10,
2020, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(3) (is guilty
of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care), (a)(18) (fails to meet
appropriate standards for delivery of respiratory care), and (a)(23) (practices or attempts to practice
beyond the authorized scope of practice). Specifically, Panel A alleged that I created and applied
an unapproved device to a patient’s endotracheal tube to stop an audible cuff leak, but the device
likely resulted in harm to the patient. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I acknowledge that
for all purposes related to licensure, the charges will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a hearing
to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving
Disciplinary Panel A

RE: James Scott Chancey, R.C.P.
Letter of Surrender

Page 2

the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by
law, including the right to appeal to circuit court,

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event
I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would
result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014),
and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement,
I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and
willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering
my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions
and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Sincerely,

Signature on File

(James Scott Chahcey =

 
discuss what the Respondent had done, nor did the Respondent indicate. that
he used a specific device.

. The Anesthesiologist heard a cuff leak and began the process to replace the
first ETT. After removing the first ETT and placing the second ETT, he
noticed that the first ETT cuff was “ripped into threads,” which he said was
“extremely unusual.”

. While the Anesthesiologist was evaluating the damage to the first ETT on
the side of the bed, he heard “a pop” in the room.

. After determining the second ETT was also leaking, the Anesthesiologist
replaced the second ETT with a third ETT. The second ETT cuff was also
torn in a similar way to the first ETT cuff.

. The Anesthesiologist replaced the third ETT with a fourth ETT after again
noticing a cuff leak. Around that time, he and his team noticed “some kind
of makeshift assembly device next to the bed,” which the Respondent had
constructed. They had not seen the device before because it “was cither
behind [the anesthesia team] or it was on the ventilator, but it was not in the
normal view of [the Anesthesiologist].”

When the Anesthesiologist removed the third ETT, he saw that the cuff was
intact. He and his team “replicated what [the Respondent] did on the first
two [ETTs] ... on the third [ETT], and we watched in front of our eyes how
the cuff... expanded in size and then ruptured.” The Respondent looked
“shocked and horrified” at the result of his device being applied to the ETT.

. The Anesthesiologist believed that the Respondent’s device provided too
much flow into the Patient’s ETT cuff “and ended up blowing up the balloon
... inside [the Patient].” He called for a team of trauma surgeons to evaluate
the Patient. While using a camera to assist in the insertion of another ETT,
the surgeons and the Anesthesiologist noted a 10cm injury to the trachea
“from right below the vocal cords all the way down to where it splits to the
carina.” The Anesthesiologist further stated that there was “‘no other reason
why [the Patient] would have incurred [the tracheal injury] if not for the
connection of [the Respondent’s] device to that ETT cuff.”

. The Anesthesiologist had never seen a device such as the one the Respondent
made used on any patient in his over 14 years of medical practice.
i. The Anesthesiologist, among others, submitted an article for publication in
which he and the other authors discussed the Patient’s case as well as the
results of the Respondent’s creating and applying an unapproved medical
device to the Patient’s ETT.

13. Onor about July 9, 2019, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath.
The Respondent said that when he evaluated the Patient’s ETT on or about July 18, 2018,
he determined there was a cuff leak and he attempted to infuse air into the cuff through the
pilot balloon. He felt no resistance in the balloon and the cuff pressure “registered zero.”
The Respondent said he was also being called to another room and, as a result, was back-
and-forth between the other room and the Patient’s room. While waiting for the anesthesia
team to arrive, he “improvised a line from the [oxygen] source and put about a half a liter
flow into the [Patient’s ETT] pilot balloon.” He checked on the Patient for the next 15-20
minutes and “everything seemed fine.” The Respondent asserted that he told the anesthesia
team about his device as soon as they arrived. The anesthesia team replaced the Patient’s
ETT, but they could not get any pressure on the ETT cuff, so, according to the Respondent,

he asked the Anesthesiologist if it was “okay to hook back up” the device he had made.

He was unsure if anyone assented to his reconnecting the device, but he did so anyway.

>On or about September 15, 2019, the article was published in a peer-reviewed journal. The article
included a description of the case that was consistent with what the Anesthesiologist described during his
interview with the Board. The article also noted that the Patient had a stable oxygen saturation and adequate
expiratory tidal volumes with the first ETT, even with the cuff leak and prior to placement of the
Respondent’s device. The article explained the authors’ concer about “‘a large iatrogenic tracheal injury”
once they observed an intact ETT cuff explode within 50 seconds when connected to the Respondent’s
device. The article also observed that “without a pressure-release mechanism or a 3-way connection to
monitor cuff pressure, an intact ETT cuff insufflated at | {liter per minute] will expand quickly, dilate the
trachea, and then explode, causing a blast injury strong enough to rupture the trachea.” The article’s authors
ultimately concluded that “ETT exchange was the safest and most appropriate option considering the
patient’s sufficient [tidal volumes] and stable vital signs initially.”

8
 

14. The Respondent acknowledged during the interview that the “standard
procedure” would have been to “pull and ET tube and bag mask” if there was trouble
ventilating and the anesthesia team was not present to replace the ETT. The Respondent
also acknowledged that he had operated outside the scope of practice for a respiratory care
practitioner by creating and applying the device to the Patient.

15. On or about July 31, 2019, the Board requested a peer review of the
Respondent’s actions from a Professor of Respiratory Therapy at a Maryland college, who
is also licensed by the Board to practice as a respiratory care practitioner in Maryland (the
“Peer Reviewer”).

16. Onor about August 26, 2019, the Peer Reviewer provided the Board with his
report. The Peer Reviewer explained that the standard of care when presented with a
patient with a compromised ETT is to “extubate the patient and manually ventilate the
patient with 100% oxygen via a bag/mask device until anesthesia arrived to assist with the
airway.” The Peer Reviewer also stated that the scope of practice for a respiratory care
practitioner “does not provide for designing and/or applying unapproved medical
devices[.]” Accordingly, the Peer Reviewer concluded that the Respondent:

¢ Failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory
care performed in the State of Maryland;

e Practiced or attempted to practice beyond the authorized scope of
practice for a respiratory care practitioner; and

e Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of
respiratory care.

° Specifically, the Board requested that the Peer Reviewer review case records provide an opinion
about whether the Respondent violated any provisions of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a).
II. Grounds for Discipline

17. The Respondent’s conduct described above constitutes, in whole or in part,
unprofessional and/or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(3).

18. The Respondent’s conduct described above constitutes, in whole or in part,
failure to meet the appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory care performed in
a hospital in the State, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(18).

19. The Respondent’s conduct described above constitutes, in whole or in part,
the practice or attempt to practice beyond the authorized scope of practice for a respiratory

care practitioner, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(23).

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds for
action under Health Occ. § 14-SA-17(a)(3), (18), and/or (23), it may impose disciplinary
sanctions against the Respondent’s license in accordance with the Board’s regulations
under COMAR 10.32.11.15 and 10.32.11.16, including revocation, suspension, reprimand,
and may place the Respondent on probation. The panel may, in addition to one or more of

the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION
CONFERENCE, PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

A Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (“DCCR”) Conference in this
matter, is scheduled for Wednesday, April 8, 2020, at 9:00 a.m., at the Board’s office,
4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR

is described in the attached letter to the Respondent. The Respondent must confirm in

10
writing his intent to attend the DCCR. The Respondent should send written confirmation
of his intent to participate in the DCCR to:

Christine A. Farrelly

Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4th Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

 

If the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a pre-hearing conference and a hearing
in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101 Gilroy
Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seq.
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.).

BRIAN E. FROSH
Attorney General of Maryland

February 10, 2020 hw. [ihc pm
Date W. Adam Malizio, Aséistdnt Attorney General

Administrative Prosecutor

Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Div.
Maryland Office of the Attorney General

300 West Preston Street, Suite 201

Baltimore, Maryland 21201

Direct: (410) 767-3448

Email: adam.malizio@maryland.gov

 
Disciplinary Panel A
RE: James Scott Chancey, R.C.P.
Letter of Surrender

Page 3
NOTARY
STATEOF  Flomade
CITY/COUNTY OF — C\a“
1 HEREBY CERTIFY that on this_\2”~ day of Jone , 2020

 

before me, a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared James Scott
Chancey, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter

of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

Notary Pu Public

 

ZA Zo2zo
ACCEPTANCE
pr-
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 2H day of Tyne , 2020,

 

I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of James Scott Chancey’s license to

practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Direct
Maryland Board of Physitiafs
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JAMES SCOTT CHANCEY,R.C.P.* MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: L06190 * Case Number: 2219-0103A
RAKKKKKR KKK ARR KKK KARA ARERR AKA KARA KAKA KKK KARR KKK

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND
RESPIRATORY CARE PRACTITIONERS ACT

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby charges James Scott Chancey, R.C.P. (the “Respondent”), License
Number L06190, under the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the ““Act”), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-5A-01 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019
Supp.). Panel A charges the Respondent under the following provisions of the Act:

§ 14-5A-17. Denials, reprimands, suspensions, and revocations — In
general.

(a) Jn general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this title,
a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may ... reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
... licensee:

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of
respiratory care;

(18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory
care performed in any inpatient or outpatient facility, office,
hospital or related institution, domiciliary care facility, patient’s
home, or any other location in this State; [and]

(23) Practices or attempts to practice beyond the authorized scope of
practice[.]
The pertinent provisions of the Board’s regulations in Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”)

provide:

10.32.11 Licensing of Respiratory Care Practitioners.

.05 Code of Ethics.
A. A respiratory care practitioner shall:

(1) Practice medically acceptable methods of treatment and may
not endeavor to practice beyond the competence and the

authority vested in the respiratory care practitioner by the
physician;

(3) Be responsible for the competent and efficient performance
of assigned duties;

(9) Uphold the dignity and honor of the profession and abide by
its ethical principles; [and]

(10) Be familiar with existing State and federal laws governing
the practice of respiratory care and comply with those lawsf[.]

B. A breach of the ethical principles stated in § A of this regulation
may be considered immoral or unprofessional conduct in the
practice of respiratory care. ...

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

Panel A bases its charges against the Respondent on the following facts that it has

cause to believe are true:

' The statements of the Respondent’s conduct set forth in this document are intended to provide the
Respondent with reasonable notice of the alleged facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily
represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against
the Respondent in connection with the charges.
I. Background

1. At all relevant times, the Respondent has been licensed to practice as a
respiratory care practitioner in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was first licensed
to practice as a respiratory care practitioner in Maryland on or about March 5, 2014, under
License Number L06910. His license is active through May 30, 2020.

2. On or about August 8, 2018, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
from a Maryland hospital (the “Hospital”)* that reported the Respondent had resigned from
the Hospital in lieu of termination on or about August 2, 2018.

3. According to the Mandated 10-Day Report, on or about July 18, 2018, the
Respondent manufactured and applied a device to a patient that was “without approval or
backing by hospital policy or any known best practice.” The Report explained that the
Respondent was called to evaluate a patient (the “Patient”) with a possible endotracheal
tube (“ETT”) cuff leak, and, while waiting for the anesthesia team to arrive and replace the
ETT, the Respondent “combined a 10 cc syringe, suction adapter, tape and oxygen
connective tubing to flow | [liter per minute] of continuous oxygen into the pilot balloon
of the cuff.” The Report then explained that the anesthesia team replaced the Patient’s ETT
four times, with the first two ETTs having ruptured or blown cuffs upon removal. The
anesthesia team, according to the Report, conducted “bench testing” and believed that the
device the Respondent made and applied to the ETTs caused the cuffs to rupture inside the
Patient’s trachea. The Patient was later found to have a large tracheal tear requiring

emergency surgical repair.

? To maintain confidentiality, the names of all witnesses, facilities, employees, and patients will not
be used in this document but will be provided to the Respondent on request.

3
 

YJ. Board Investigation

4, The Board initiated an investigation into the Respondent's conduct based on

the statements in the Mandated 10-Day Report.

5. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained the Respondent’s personnel
file from the Hospital. The Respondent’s personnel file showed that he worked at the
Hospital as a respiratory therapist beginning on or about July 28, 2014, and was terminated

from his employment there on or about August 2, 2018.3
6. The Respondent’s personnel file included a “Corrective Action Form” dated
August 2, 2018, that addressed the termination of his employment. A supervisor from the

Hospital’s Respiratory Care Department (“Supervisor 1”) completed the Corrective Action
Form. Supervisor 1 described the events leading to the Respondent's termination as

follows:

On the morning of July 18, 2018, at 11:00. . . the [Respondent] was
called to room 9 . . . because of an endotracheal tube (ETT) cuff leak.
On arrival the therapist noted an audible cuff leak, and proceeded to
deflate the cuff and add 40ml of air into the cuff. The cuff pressure
was checked and found to be zero mmHG. He then placed additional
air into the pilot balloon and capped the end to see if the pilot balloon
was leaking. When it was determined that a leak was still present, he
constructed a device using a 10ml syringe, suction adapter, and
oxygen connecting tubing. He then connected the device to the pilot
balloon and introduced a constant | liter per minute flow of oxygen
into the cuff. Anesthesia responding reports that they were not
initially aware the device was being used. The patient had four ETT
tube changes and the device was used on the initial and then two
subsequent tubes. These three tubes had significantly ruptured cuffs
when removed. Significant subcutaneous air was present and on X-
ray a massive right sided pneumothorax was noted. After the fourth

? As stated in Paragraph 2, supra, the Mandated 10-Day Report states, and the Respondent
maintains, that he was given the opportunity to resign in lieu of termination. Any such resignation letter is
not in the Respondent’s personnel file that the Hospital provided to the Board.

4
 

tube exchange the patient was taken to the OR were interventional

radiology performed a bronchoscopy that showed a large Scm defect
in the right posterior trachea.

7. Supervisor 1 concluded that the incident “demonstrates a serious lack of
responsibility” and violated multiple Hospital policies. Supervisor 1 also stated that the
“decision to construct an unapproved medical device and utilize it in the care of [a] patient
is outside the scope of [a] Respiratory Therapist.”

8. On or about October 22, 2018, the Board notified the Respondent by letter
about the Hospital’s Mandated 10-Day Report and requested a written response from him.

9. On or about November 4, 2018, the Respondent provided the Board with his
written response. The Respondent acknowledged applying an “unapproved device to a
patient” in an “emergent situation,” but insisted, among other things, that he “immediately
informed the primary physician and physician assistant” as well as the responding
anesthesiologist (the “Anesthesiologist”) about the device. The Respondent insisted that
the device was initially applied for about 40 minutes, and no other practitioners told him
during that time that they “were uncomfortable with [his] actions or disapproved[.]” The
Respondent also stated that the cause of the Patient’s trachea damage was “never
conclusively determined.”

10. On or about March 29, 2019, Board staff interviewed Supervisor | under
oath. Supervisor | confirmed and reiterated the description of the device the Respondent

made and used that Supervisor 1 provided in the August 2, 2018 Corrective Action Form

‘ Previously, in a Performance Review completed September 2, 2016, under a section titled
“Communication,” another supervisor wrote that the Respondent “does not always stick to the constructed
plan that was agreed upon during rounds. Moreover, this deviation from the plan is not consistently relayed
to the ICU team... A physician had expressed her concerns about [the Respondent] not communicating
and doing his own thing.”
(see 6, above). Supervisor 1 explained that, in his 33 years of experience as a respiratory
care practitioner, he had never seen a device like the one the Respondent made and applied
to the Patient. According to Supervisor 1, the Respondent should have “removed the
[P]atient from the ventilator and manually . . . with a resuscitation bag [and] just bagged
... the [PJatient until the physician would’ve had time to get there and to. . . put in another
ET tube.” Supervisor | also stated that making a device such as the one the Respondent
made and applying it to a patient was not within the scope of practice for a respiratory care
practitioner.

11]. On or about March 29, 2019, Board staff interviewed the Director of the
Hospital’s Respiratory Care Department (“Supervisor 2”) under oath. Supervisor 2
confirmed and reiterated the description of the device the Respondent made and used that
Supervisor 2 included in the Mandated 10-Day Report (see 3, above). Supervisor 2
explained that, in his experience as a respiratory care practitioner, he had never seen a
device like the one the Respondent made. According to Supervisor 2, the Respondent
should have worked with a physician team to exchange the airway, or, as a last resort, “pull
the tube out and manually ventilate them at the face[.]” Supervisor 2 said that he believed
the Respondent “was proud of the fact that he would operate at the fringes of safe practice.”

12, On or about May 16, 2019, Board staff interviewed the Anesthesiologist
under oath. The Anesthesiologist explained the following information, among other things,
during his interview:

a. He was called to the Patient’s room to evaluate an ETT cuff leak. Upon
arrival in the room, the Respondent was in the room at the head of the
Patient’s bed and told the Anesthesiologist that there was a continuous ETT
cuff leak “despite some measures that [the Respondent] took.” They did not
