IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

ALYSE BECK, RCP * STATE BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Respondent. * Case Number 7716-0026

License Number L06144 *

KEKE REE ERE ERE RR RRR ERR RR KR RR KERR EKER KER KERR ARR KRRKRRR KEKE RE KR KER ERKE KER KEKE KEEKKKEKKK

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On December 1, 2015, Alyse Beck, a Respiratory Care Practitioner (“RCP”) licensed by
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board’”) since 2013, entered into an agreement
with the Board wherein she agreed to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(“MPRP”) within ten (10) business days of the agreement and comply with all of the MPRP’s
recommendations. Ms. Beck did not enroll in the MPRP. On March 31, 2016 the Board issued a
Notice to Show Cause alleging a violation of the agreement based on Ms. Beck’s failure to enroll
in the MPRP.

On May 11, 2016, Ms. Beck appeared at a Show Cause hearing before Board
Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”). The State presented evidence of Ms. Beck’s violation and
argued that Ms. Beck’s license should be suspended until she complies with the terms of the
December 1, 2015 agreement. Ms. Beck conceded that she violated the December 1, 2015
agreement.

Panel A finds that Ms. Beck failed to comply with the terms of the December 1, 2015
agreement. Pursuant to the agreement, the Panel may take any action authorized under Section
14-5A-17(a) of the Maryland Medical Practice Act, which includes a reprimand, probation,
suspension, and/or revocation.

ORDER

On an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, it is hereby:
ORDERED that Ms. Beck’s license to practice respiratory care in Maryland (License
Number L06144) is SUSPENDED)’; and it is further

ORDERED that within 10 business days, Ms. Beck shall enroll with the MPRP and shall
comply with all terms and conditions of the December 1, 2015 agreement; and it is further

ORDERED that Ms. Beck may submit a written petition to the Board or Panel A
requesting termination of her suspension once she successfully complies with the terms of the
December 1, 2015 agreement. After consideration of the petition, the suspension may be
terminated through an order of the Board or Panel A. Ms. Beck may be required to appear
before the Board or Panel A to discuss her petition for termination. The Board or Panel A will
grant the petition to terminate the suspension if Ms. Beck has successfully complied with the
December 1, 2015 agreement and there are no pending complaints related to the charges; and it
is further

ORDERED that upon termination of Ms. Beck’s suspension, the Board or Panel A may
impose a period of probation with terms and conditions to be determined by the Board or Panel
A; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Board or Panel A determines, after notice and an opportunity for a
hearing before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings if there is
a genuine dispute as to a material fact or a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel A if
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, that Ms. Beck has failed to comply with this
Order, the Board or Panel A may reprimand Ms. Beck, place Ms. Beck on probation with

i itions, . icense to practice medicine in
appropriate terms and conditions, suspend or revoke Ms. Beck’s license t t d

' Ms. Beck’s license expires on May 30, 2016. If Ms. Beck fails to renew her license before it expires, the
suspension will not be terminated and the time period of suspension will be tolled until her license is reinstated.
COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a). If Ms. Beck’s license expires while her license is suspended, Ms. Beck may not
petition Panel A for termination of suspension until she applies for and meets the requirements for reinstatement set
out in COMAR 10.32.11.11, the reinstatement regulations for RCPs. See COMAR 10.32.02.06A (4).
Maryland, or impose a civil monetary fine upon Ms. Beck in addition to a sanction; and it is
further

ORDERED that Ms. Beck is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the Order, any time period prescribed in this
order begins when the Order goes into effect. The Order goes into effect upon the signature of
the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.

§§ 4-101 ef seg.

slig/20le Chit

Date Christine A. Farrell
Maryland State Board

 

 
