Thomas F. Fahey, Jr., RCP

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
Thomas F, Fahey, Jr., RCP
License Number: L06311
Case Number: 7724-0017

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5A-16 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice as
a Respiratory Care Practitioner in the State of Maryland, License Number L06311,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in
the practice of Respiratory Care in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Respiratory
Care Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.§§ 14-5A-01 et seg. and other applicable
laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that
the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, it becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation based on my violation of
my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement (“PRA”) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
(“PRP”) with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and the Order
Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation issued on July 9, 2021. On September 8,
2023, Panel B issued an Order After Show Cause Hearing that placed me on a new
probation period for a minimum of three (3) years and required that I continue to participate
in MPRP based on a second instance of failure to comply with my PRA and PRP.
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Thomas F. Fahey, Jr., RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I acknowledge that I again violated my PRA and PRP and the September 8, 2023
Order After Show Cause Hearing and that MPRP discharged me for cause on January 23,
2024,

I have decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the
September 8, 2023 Order After Show Cause Hearing and to avoid prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the Order. I acknowledge that the September
8, 2023 Order After Show Cause Hearing will remain and will continue to be a valid Final
Order of the Board; however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be
required to comply with the conditions of the September 8, 2023 Order After Show Cause
Hearing as long as I do not have or possess an active respiratory care practitioner license
in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the September 8, 2023, Order After Show Cause
Hearing. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would be issued from Panel
B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had.the.
right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf
and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to circuit court.

I understand the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank and
Federation of State Medical Boards of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the
event I apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order
that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Gen.
Prov. § 14-101 e¢ seg., and this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B
or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

Lacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Thomas F. Fahey, Jr., RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms, and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

. Very truly yours, _

Signature On File

Thomas F. Fahey, Jr., RCP ~

NOTARY

sTaTE oF ‘Vary land
CITY/COUNTY OF Baltima/?é
rf a
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this &2 day of }¢ | Wilt, 2024, before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Thomas F. Fahey, Jr.,

RCP, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter
of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.
| ~e—.
Notary Public
My commission expires:
GLEIBIS TIBURCIO
Notary Public

Baltimore County
Maryland

 

My Commission Expires Jan. 17, 2027
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Thomas F. Fahey, Jr., RCP
, Letter of Surrender
' Page 4

: ACCEPTANCE
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this (ol ay of aJy, 2024, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept Thomas F. Fahey, Jr., RCP’s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of his

license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Diredtg
Maryland Board of Physicians

 
