Michael Nero, RCP
Date: J iLLy’ Ob 2020

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Bloor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

 

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
Michael Nero, RCP License Number: L06765
Case Number: 7720-0083

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5A-16 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L06765, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of respiratory care in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that, on February 27, 2020, Panel A issued an Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation placing me on probation for a minimum of five years
and required that I remained enrolled in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) and to continue in my participate rehabilitation agreement. A copy of
the Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1. 1 acknowledge that the
Board was notified by MPRP that | violated my Rehabilitation Agreement. The Board
requested a written response and I advised the Board of my desire to be removed from the
MPRP and surrender my license. I have decided to surrender my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of
the allegations that I violated the February 27, 2020 Order Terminating Suspension and
Imposing Probation. I acknowledge that the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing
Probation remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however,
upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the

conditions of the Order as long as I do not have or possess a respiratory care license in
Maryland.
RE: Michael Nero, RCP
Letter of Surrender
~ Page 2

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to.
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for the
violation aforementioned. I do not wish to contest these allegations, I understand that by
executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,

Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate. for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel! A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender, I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily,

Verw truly vours. + |
Signature on File

Michael Nero, RCP.
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Michael Nero, RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF My )
CITY/COUNTY OF Bo WL wn oi

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this (Yay of cls , 2020 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Michael Nero, RCP, and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 
 
   

Notary Public

My commission expires: Dew \% 1 209

 
 
   
  

 
  
  

aL Pele
ti ms SOunty
MED. de ote

_ On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this | Tiny of J U/i4-_, 2020, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Michael/Nero, RCP’s

license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland.
a .
Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Ero Director,
Maryland Board of Physic

  
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MICHAEL NERO, R.C.P. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
RESPONDENT * OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: L06765 * Case Number: 7719-0119

* * * * x * * * x x x * x

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION

On June 13, 2017, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (“Board”) and the Respondent,
Michael Nero, R.C.P, entered into a Disposition Agreement, which required that he enroll in the
Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). Mr. Nero agreed to comply with all of
MPRP’s recommendations and agreed to fulfill all conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement that he signed with MPRP on June 26, 2017. On multiple occasions in 2018, MPRP
reported to the Board that Mr. Nero had failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. On November 18, 2018, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”)
of the Board issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause regarding Mr. Nero’s
alleged violations of his Disposition Agreement. Panel A held a show cause hearing on
December 5, 2018, during which Mr. Nero admitted his violations.

On December 21, 2018, Panel A received another report from MPRP that Mr. Nero had again
failed to comply with his Rehabilitation Agreement. On December 31, 2018, the panel received a
written acknowledgement of his failure to comply from Mr. Nero. On March 27, 2019, Panel A
issued a second Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause and held another show
cause hearing on May 8, 2019 at which Mr. Nero had the opportunity to argue why his license

should not be subject to further discipline.
Panel A issued the Order After Show Cause Hearings, dated June 4, 2019, which addressed
the evidence and presentations before the panel at the show cause hearings held on December 5,
2018 and May 8, 2019, and determined that Mr, Nero had violated his June 13, 2017 Disposition
Agreement. The Panel imposed a period of suspension for a minimum of six months with certain
terms and conditions, including that Mr. Nero remain enrolled in MPRP, followed by a period of
probation for a minimum of five years, Mr. Nero has fully and satisfactorily complied with the
terms and conditions of the suspension and has submitted a written petition for termination of the
suspension,

It is hereby

ORDERED that the suspension of Mr. Nero’s respiratory care license is TERMINATED;

and it is further

ORDERED that Mr, Nero’s respiratory care license is placed on PROBATION? for a

minimum period of FIVE (5) YEARS. During the probationary period, Mr. Nero shall comply
with the following terms and conditions:

1. Mr. Nero shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in his Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

2. Mr. Nero shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP referrals, rules, and
requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP,
and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and

screenings as directed by MPRP;

? If Mr. Nero’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.

2
3. Mr. Nero’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a violation of this
Order;

4, Mr. Nero shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the Board
and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and
written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information form MPRP records and files in a public order. A failure to, or withdrawal
of, consent, is a violation of this Order.

5. Mr. Nero shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of Mr.
Nero’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Mr. Nero and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Mr. Nero, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records; and it is further

ORDERED that Mr. Nero shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is further

ORDERED that after a minimum of five years has passed and Mr. Nero has fully and

satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of probation, Mr. Nero may submit a
written petition for termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation
may be terminated through an order of a disciplinary panel. Mr. Nero may be required to appear
before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may
grant the petition to terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Mr.
Nero has successfully complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and if there are

no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further
ORDERED that if Mr. Nero allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition imposed
by this Order, Mr. Nero shall be given nolice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary
panel determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before
an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If the disciplinary panel
determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Mr. Nero shall be given a show
cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that Mr.
Nero has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary
pane] may reprimand Mr. Nero, placed Mr, Nero on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke Mr. Nero’s license to practice respiratory care in Maryland. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine upon Mr. Nero; and it is further

ORDERED that Mr, Nero is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date of the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or designee signs the
Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,

v2[ot/avz0_ Signature on File
_ pecumepicm (|

Maryland Board of Physicians
