IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

Michael C. Nero, R.C.P. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent. * PHYSICIANS
License No. L06765 : * — Case No. 7717-0098A
* * * * * . * * * * * * * . *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARINGS

The issue in this case is whether Michael C. Nero, R.C.P., has violated a Disposition
Agreement into which he entered with the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) on
June 13, 2017. Pursuant to the Disposition Agreement, Mr. Nero enrolled in the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”), agreed to comply with all of MPRP’s
recommendations, and agreed to fulfill all conditions of a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
that he signed with MPRP on June 26, 2017, On multiple occasions in 2018, MPRP reported to
the Board that Mr. Nero had failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement. On November 18, 2018, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the
Board issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause regarding Mr. Nero’s
alleged violations of his Disposition Agreement. Panel A held a show cause hearing on
December 5, 2018, during which Mr. Nero admitted his violations.

On December 21, 2018, Panel A received another report from MPRP that Mr. Nero had
again failed to comply with his Rehabilitation Agreement, On December 31, 2018, the panel
received a written acknowledgement of his failure to comply from Mr. Nero. On March 27,
2019, Panel A issued a second Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause and held
another show cause hearing on May 8, 2019 at which Mr. Nero had the opportunity to argue why .

his license should not be. subject to further discipline. Panel A is issuing this Order after
considering the entirety of the record evidence and presentations before the panel at the show

cause hearings held on December 5, 2018 and May 8, 2019.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Background and Requirements of the Disposition Agreement
On June 14, 2017, Mr. Nero was initially licensed in Maryland as a respiratory care
practitioner (R.C.P.) by the Board. On June 13, 2017; Mr. Nero entered. into a non-public
Disposition Agreement with the Board in lieu of further investigation into information he had
disclosed on his initial application for licensure.' The Disposition Agreement states:

The Applicant shall enter into a Board-monitored Participant Rehabilitation |
Agreement with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”)
within ten (10) business days of the date the Board executes this Disposition
Agreement. The Applicant shall comply with the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement into which he entered with the MPRP and will fulfill all conditions of
the Participation Rehabilitation Agreement.

The Disposition Agreement further provides:
AGREED, that . . . if the Applicant fails to comply with any term or condition of
this Agreement, this Agreement shall be treated as a public Consent Order, the
violation of which authorizes the Board or a Board panel, after notice and
opportunity to be heard, to take any action prescribed under §§ 14-5A-17(a) and
14-5A-23 of the . . . Act, including a reprimand, probation, suspension or
revocation of the Applicant’s . . . license; and/or fine.

On June 26, 2017, Mr. Nero signed a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP

for a duration of three years.

' The nature of the information Mr, Nero disclosed is confidential.
Violations of the Disposition and Participant Rehabilitation Agreements

January-July, 2018: Non-Compliance with MPRP Conditions

In January, February, March and June of 2018, MPRP reported to the Board that Mr.
Nero had failed to comply with his Rehabilitation Agreement. On June 12, 2018, the Board
requested a response from Mr. Nero regarding the reports from MPRP. On June 21, 2018, Mr.
Nero provided a written explanation to the Board of events leading to his failures to comply with
his Rehabilitation Agreement. He indicated that “these explanations do not excuse my actions,”
that “{i]t was not my intention to blatantly disregard my responsibility as a participant [in
MPRP],” and that he would “continue to work to improve these areas in order to be in
compliance.”

In huly, 2018, MPRP reported to the Board that Mr. Nero had self-reported a more recent
violation of his Rehabilitation Agreement. On July 20, 2018, Mr. Nero provided a written
explanation to the Board of the events leading to this violation.

Show Cause Hearing — December 5, 2018

On November 15, 2018, Panel A issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show
Cause based on these alleged violations and held a show cause hearing on December 5, 2018.
Through his counsel, Mr. Nero stated that there was no denial of the facts in his case and further
acknowledged that the July 2018 incident clearly was a violation of his Rehabilitation
Agreement.

December, 2018: Additional Non-Compliance with MPRP Conditions
On December 21, 2018, prior to the issuance of an Order based on that first show cause
hearing, MPRP reported to the Board that Mr. Nero had again violated his Rehabilitation

Agreement, The Board- requested a written response from Mr. Nero on December 26, 2018. In
an answer to the Board sent on December 31, 2018, Mr. Nero acknowledged the additional
violation of his Rehabilitation Agreement and provided written information concerning the
circumstances.
Show Cause Hearing ~ May 8, 2019

On March 27, 2019, Panel A issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show
Cause to Mr. Nero. Panel A again granted Mr, Nero the opportunity to show cause, at a hearing
with his counsel, as to why the panel should not issue further sanctions based on his violations of
the June 13, 2017 Disposition Agreement. The second show cause hearing was conducted on
May 8, 2019,
| At the hearing, Mr. Nero did not dispute the additional violations of his Rehabilitation
Agreement with MPRP and his Disposition Agreement with the Board. Mr, Nero requested that
the panel impose a Reprimand and an extension of his period of enrollment and participation in
MPRP. The State also recommended continued enrollment in and compliance with MPRP’s
recommendations and further argued that the pattern of repeated violations by Mr. Nero
warranted a suspension of his license for nine months and probation for a period of five years.

Based upon all of the reports from MPRP and the information presented at the show
cause hearings, Panel A finds that Mr. Nero failed to comply with the conditions of his June 13,
2017 Disposition Agreement and his June 26, 2017 Rehabilitation Agreement. Mr. Nero’s

violations are undisputed.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A concludes that Mr. Nero violated the terms and conditions of the June 13, 2017
Disposition Agreement by failing to comply with the terms of his MPRP Participant

Rehabilitation Agreement.
ORDER

It is, on an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the June 13, 2017 Disposition Agreement is terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that the respiratory care practitioner license of Michael C. Nero, R.C.P.,

license number L06765, is SUSPENDED? for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS. During the

period of suspension, Mr. Nero shall comply with all of the following terms and conditions:

1,

Mr. Nero shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in his Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

Mr. Nero shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP referrals, rules,
and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

Mr, Nero’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a
violation of this Order;

Mr. Nero shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the
Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information form MPRP records and files in a public order. A failure to, or
withdrawal of, consent, is a violation of this Order;

Mr. Nero shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of Mr,
Nero’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information

? If Mr. Nero’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be tolled,
> During the suspension period, Mr, Nero shall not:

(1) practice as a respiratory care practitioner;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the public as a current provider
of medical services;
authorize, allow or condone the use of Mr. Nero’s name or provider number by any health care practice or
any other licensee or health care provider;
function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the State; or
perform any act that requires an active respiratory care practitioner license.

GB

oS

(4)
6)
concerning Mr, Nero and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Mr, Nero, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records; and it is further

ORDERED that Mr. Nero shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it is
further .

ORDERED that, after a minimum of six months las passed and Mr. Nero has fully and
satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension, Mr. Nero may submit a
written petition for termination of the suspension. After a determination that Mr. Nero has fully
and satisfactorily complied with the relevant terms and conditions of the suspension, the
disciplinary panel may administratively terminate Mr. Nero’s suspension through an order of the
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, upon termination of the suspension, Mr. Nero shall be placed on
PROBATION? for a minimum period of FIVE (5) YEARS. During the probationary period,

Mr. Nero shall comply with the following terms and conditions:

1. Mr. Nero shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in his Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

2, Mr. Nero shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP referrals, rules,
and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

3. Mr. Nero’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a
violation of this Order;

4. Mr. Nero shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the

Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant

“If Mr. Nero’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.
information form MPRP records and files in a public order. A failure to, or
withdrawal of, consent, is a violation of this Order;

5. Mr. Nero shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of Mi.
Nero’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Mr. Nero and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Mr. Nero, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records; and it is further
ORDERED that Mr. Nero shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further
ORDERED that after a minimum of five years has passed and Mr. Nero has fully and
satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of probation, Mr. Nero may submit a
written petition for termination of probation, After consideration of the petition, the probation
may be terminated through an order of a disciplinary panel, Mr. Nero may be required to appear
before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may
grant the petition to terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Mr.
. Nero has successfully complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and if there are
. no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further
ORDERED that if Mr. Nero allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Mr. Nero shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the
disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If the
disciplinary panel determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Mr. Nero shall
be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that

Mr. Nero has failed to comply with any term.or condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary
panel may reprimand Mr. Nero, place Mr. Nero on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke Mr. Nero’s license to practice respiratory care in Maryland.
The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a
civil monetary fine upon Mr, Nero; and it is further

ORDERED that Mr. Nero is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or designee signs the
Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this
Ordeér, and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health

Oce, §§ 1-607 and 14-411.1, and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b) (2014 & 2018 Supp.).

     

 

Se )

0v/O4/2014 Onnuitinct\: f

Date Christine A. Farrelly, Exec o i
: Maryland State Board of Physici
