Melissa Rutherford, RCP

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
Melissa Rutherford, RCP
License Number: L07049
Case Number: 7722-0002

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann,, Health Oce. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5A-16 (2021 Repl. Vol.), | have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L07049, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice
respiratory care, with or without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined
in the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01
et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board summarily suspended my license to practice
respiratory care on March 31, 2021 based on concerns about my ability to practice safely.
On April 2, 2021, Panel A issued charges against me under Health Occ. §
14-5A-17(a)(3)(Unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care),
(7)(Addiction to or habitual use of any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article), and (8)(ii)(Provides professional
services while using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as define in § 5-101
of the Criminal Law Article or any other drug that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or
without valid indication). I resolved these disciplinary charges through a Consent Order
with Panel A, dated July 9, 2021, in which Panel A found that I violated Health Occ. §
14-5A-17(a)(3), (7), and (8)(ii). The Consent Order terminated the summary suspension,
suspended my license for a minimum of one (1) year, reprimanded me, and required that I
Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Melissa Rutherford, RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

enroll in and comply with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”).
A copy of the Consent Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1,

I have decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the State of
Maryland because I am no longer able to comply with the requirements of MPRP due to a
medical condition that prevents me from being able to practice respiratory care at this
time. I acknowledge that the Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final
Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be
required to comply with the conditions of the Order as long as I do not have or possess an
active respiratory care license in Maryland.

I wish to. make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. | do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive. and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md, Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

I acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Melissa Rutherford, RCP
1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment;

 

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to
authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and
files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to
ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the
Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold herself out to the public as a
current provider of medical services;

(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider number by any
health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in
the state;

(5) dispense medications; or

(6) perform any other act that requires an active respiratory care license.
 

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of
this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further
ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Consent
Order has passed and the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms
and conditions for the suspension and if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the
Respondent is safe to return to the practice of respiratory care, the Respondent may submit
a written petition to the disciplinary panel to terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s
license. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss
her petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the
Respondent to return to the practice of respiratory care, the suspension will be terminated
through an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms
and conditions it deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but
not limited to, probation and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If
the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the
practice of respiratory care, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the
disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the

disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate;

and it is further
 

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which

has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document, See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Le Signature on File
07/04/Z0z/
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Brey ive Die]
Maryland State Board of\PKysicians

CONSENT

I, Melissa Rutherford, RCP, acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition,

1 assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. 1 waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order,

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges, I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights

to appeal this Consent Order.
I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms.

Iso) Signature on File
% “ “
eh os Melissa Rutherford, R.C.P. { “|

Respondent

NOTARY

STATE OF (Via fu lawd

CITY/COUNTY OF _ Harfad

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 30 day of “Sune. 2021, before me,
a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Melissa
Rutherford, R.C.P., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

Kelly L Gross
NOTARY PUBLIC
Harford County <
boy State of Maryland LON st roxs
My Commission Expires Notary Public

duly 11, 2023

My Commission expires: Suly LT, ZO2Z

 

ll
Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Melissa Rutherford, RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Ldn Hea tenet

NOTARY

  

STATE OF “Zi ad.

CITY/COUNTY" OF be of

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this “7 day of. apyerge , 2022 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Melissa Rutherford,

RCP, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Letter of Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this i at day of | Tan 4J Anvi/ynoga, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept Melissa Rutherford, RCP’s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of her license to
practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrell, Executive Director {)
Maryland Board of Physicians \

 
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MELISSA RUTHERFORD, R.C.P. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: L07049 * Case Numbers: 2221-0090A
* * * * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

On April 2, 2021, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged MELISSA RUTHERFORD, R.C.P.
“Respondent”), License Number L07049, under the Maryland Respiratory Care

Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-5A-01

et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a) provide as

follows:

§ 14-5A-17. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and

revocations — In general.

(a) Ingeneral. Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel of the Board, on the affirmative vote of a
majority of the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may . . . reprimand any
licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license, if

the .. . licensee:

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice

of respiratory care;
(7) Is addicted to or habitually abuses any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article; [and]

(8) Provides professional services while:

(ii) Using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal
Law Article or any other drug that is in excess of
therapeutic amounts or without valid medical
indication[.]

On June 9, 2021, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A finds:

IL BACKGROUND/LICENSING INFORMATION

1. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent was licensed to
practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed

to practice respiratory care in Maryland on July 2, 2019, under License Number L07049.

The Respondent’s license is current through May 30, 2022.
2. At all times relevant to these charges, the Respondent practiced as a
respiratory care practitioner at a health care facility (the “Facility”)! located in Baltimore
County, Maryland.

3. On March 31, 2021, Panel A, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §
("State Gov't") § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs.
(“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7), issued an Order for Summary Suspension, in which it
summarily suspended the Respondent's license to practice respiratory care, concluding that
the public health, safety or welfare imperatively required emergency action. The
Respondent’s respiratory care practitioner license remains suspended as of the date of these
charges.

Hi. THE COMPLAINT

4, The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent on February 3, 2021,
after receiving a Mandated 10-Day Report (the “Report”) from the Facility. The Facility
reported that on January 22, 2021, it placed the Respondent on a leave of absence after she
was found asleep while on duty.

5. The Facility stated that on January 22, 2021, two supervisory Facility staff
persons (the Supervisor and Director) found the Respondent in the break room asleep with
her head down. They called out her name multiple times before they were able to wake

her up. The Respondent disclosed to the Director that she had been up all night and had

' For confidentiality reasons, the name of the health care facility will not be identified in this document.
The Respondent is aware of the identity of the health care facility.
used an illicit controlled dangerous substance (“CDS”).? Facility staff then escorted the

Respondent to the Facility’s Occupational Health department for a fitness-for-duty

evaluation, after which the Respondent was sent home pending the results of testing. The

Facility received the test findings on February 2, 2021, which it attached to the Report.3
TI. BOARD INVESTIGATION

6. By letter dated February 19, 2021, the Board informed the Respondent that
it was in receipt of the Facility’s Report and had opened an investigation of her as a result.
The Board directed the Respondent to address the matter in a written response on or before
February 26, 2021.

7. By letter dated March 1, 2021, the Respondent submitted a written response
to the Board in which she stated that due to increased stressors in her life, she became
“easily influenced by a negative person in [her] life” and has since asked the Facility for
assistance for her medical condition.

8. Board staff interviewed the Facility staff persons who supervised the
Respondent. These individuals confirmed that they encountered the Respondent on
January 22, 2021 and observed her sleeping in a break room while on duty. The Director
confirmed that the Respondent made disclosures to her about her use of an illicit CDS and
was “remorseful” and “embarrassed,” after which she sent the Respondent to the Facility’s
? For confidentiality reasons, the specific CDS the Respondent disclosed will not be identified in this

document. The Board was aware of the specific CDS the Respondent disclosed and Panel A was aware of
the CDS the Respondent disclosed at the time it voted to charge the Respondent under the Act.

3 For confidentiality reasons, the test findings will not be identified in this document. The Board was aware
of the specific test findings and Panel A was aware of the findings at the time it voted to charge the
Respondent with violating the Act.
 

Occupational Health department. Board staff confirmed during these interviews that on
January 22, 2021, the Respondent had been seeing patients during her shift.

9. Board staff also reviewed Facility records which noted that in November
2019, the Facility sent the Respondent to its Occupational Health department for sleeping
while-on duty, during which time the Respondent disclosed that she was with an individual
who was using an illicit CDS. Facility records state that the Respondent was working on
January 22, 2021, the day she was relieved from duty. The records also state that the
Respondent admitted to using illicit CDS since September 2020 and “had an all nightery
(sic) on Wednesday.”*

10. On March 17, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview of the
Respondent. During the interview, the Respondent stated that she began using an illicit
CDS in or around September 2020, and that by the end of December 2020/beginning of
January 2021, was using this illicit CDS on a daily basis. The Respondent stated that she
missed one day of work in January 2021 due to her illicit CDS use. With respect to the
incident that occurred on January 22, 2021, the Respondent stated that she used the illicit
CDS during the early morning hours of January 21, 2021, which caused her to have an “all
nighter.” The Respondent confirmed that she used the illicit CDS the night before her shift
on January 22, 2021 and was found asleep by Facility staff in the break room. The
Respondent stated that she continued to use the illicit CDS until February 3 or 4, 2021,

when she left for treatment.

4 Wednesday, January 20, 2021.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based of the above findings of fact, Panel A concludes that the Respondent is guilty
of unprofessional or inimoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(3), Is addicted to or habitually abuses any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, in violation of
Health Oce. § 14-5A-17(a)(7); and provides professional services while using any narcotic
or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 or the Criminal Law Article or any
other drug that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(8)(ii).

ORDER

It is, by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension, dated March 31, 2021, is
TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED

for a minimum of ONE YEAR;’ and it is further

ORDERED that during the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the

following terms and conditions of the suspension®:

° If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any
conditions will be tolled.

° During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

() practice respiratory care;
