IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

FYSAL HENSON, NMT * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: N01623 * Case Number: 7723-0014

* * * x x x * x x * * * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

The issue in this case is whether Fysal Henson, Nuclear Medicine Technologist (“NMT”),
has violated the conditions of the Order After Show Cause Hearing executed on August 23, 2022
(“August 2022 Order”) by the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

The August 2022 Order followed Mr. Henson’s violations of a Disposition Agreement into
which he entered with the Board on August 27, 2021, and a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
he signed in September 2021 with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”).
Following notification from MPRP in October and December 2021 that Mr. Henson had failed to
comply with his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement on multiple occasions, Panel A issued a
Notice of Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause in March.2022 and held a show
cause hearing on August 10, 2022. Mr. Henson appeared at that hearing and admitted that he
violated his 2021 Disposition Agreement and his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement with
MPRP. In the August 2022 Order, Panel A reprimanded Mr. Henson, suspended his license for a
minimum of six months, and required him to reenroll and remain compliant with MPRP and to

enter into a new Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Rehabilitation Plan.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A makes the following Findings of Fact:

Background
Mr. Henson was initially licensed as a nuclear medicine technologist in the State of
Maryland in May 2016. In 2021, the Board received information that Mr. Henson was convicted
of Driving While Intoxicated in 2013 and in 2019. To resolve the Board’s concerns, Mr. Henson
agreed to enter into a non-public Disposition Agreement with Panel A in lieu of further
investigation and potential disciplinary charges for a violation of the Maryland Radiation Therapy,
Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act.

Disposition Agreement: August 27, 2021

On August 27, 2021, Panel A and Mr. Henson agreed to a non-public Disposition
Agreement wherein Mr. Henson agreed to enter into a Board-monitored Participant’ Rehabilitation
Agreement with MPRP. Mr. Henson agreed to fulfill all conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement. The Agreement also stated:

AGREED, that if the MPRP discharges [Mr. Henson] for unsuccessful
completion of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement or rehabilitation plan, or if

[Mr. Henson] fails to comply with any term or condition of this Agreement, this

Agreement shall be treated as a public Consent Order, the violation of which

authorizes the Board or a Board panel, after notice and an opportunity to be heard,

to take any action prescribed under § 14-5B-14(a) of the Maryland [Radiation

Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance

Act], including a reprimand, probation, suspension or revocation of [Mr. Henson’s

Nuclear Medicine Technologist] license; and/or fine.

On or about September 21, 2021, Mr. Henson enrolled in MPRP and signed a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement.

Violation of August 27, 2021 Disposition Agreement

On October 8, 2021, MPRP notified the Board that Mr. Henson had failed. to return certain

documentation requested by MPRP in violation of the terms of his Participant Rehabilitation

Agreement. In a letter, dated October 12, 2021, the Board notified Mr. Henson that the failure to

cooperate and comply with MPRP may result in disciplinary action against his license up to and
conditions, or suspend or revoke Mr. Henson’s license to practice respiratory care in Maryland.
The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a
civil monetary fine upon Mr. Henson; and it is further

ORDERED that Mr. Henson is responsible for any costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or designee signs the
Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Order,
and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. §§ 1-607 and 14-411.1, and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b) (2021 Repl. Vol.).

6/1) 51 33

Signature On File

 

Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

i1
including revocation. On December 7, 2021, MPRP notified the Board that Mr. Henson violated
his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement on five occasions between October 29, 2021 and
December 1, 2021.! On December 23, 2021, MPRP notified the Board that they had still not
received the requested paperwork from Mr. Henson that was due, at the latest, by October 6, 2021,
and informed the Board that Mr. Henson was discharged from MPRP for cause.
First Show Cause Hearing: May 11, 2022

On March 14, 2022, Panel A issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause,
alleging that Mr. Henson violated the terms and conditions of the August 27, 2021 Disposition
Agreement by failing to comply with the terms of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement he
entered into with MPRP. Panel A mailed the documents to Mr. Henson at his address of record
on file with the Board and informed him that a Show Cause hearing was scheduled to take place
on Wednesday May 11, 2022, at 11:15 A.M., at the Board’s office remotely via the Zoom
platform. Before and on May 11, 2022, Board staff repeatedly sent a series of emails.to Mr. Henson
to facilitate his participation at the scheduled hearing via Zoom. Mr. Henson did not respond to
any of the emails and failed to appear at his Show Cause hearing in-person or remotely via Zoom.

Panel A proceeded with the Show Cause Hearing. The administrative prosecutor appeared on

behalf of the State.
Second Show Cause Hearing: August 10, 2022

Following the Show Cause hearing on May 11, 2022, and prior to the issuance of an Order,
Mr. Henson contacted Board staff on May 31, 2022, stating that he had just noticed the email

notices sent to him. He told Board staff he moved to Virginia in October 2021 and had not received

' The nature of the violation is confidential.
any letters or notices sent by the Board to his Maryland address of record. Mr. Henson admitted
that he did not update his address with the Board when he moved. |

After verifying Mr. Henson’s current mail and email addresses,” Panel A offered Mr.
Henson a chance to appear for a second Show Cause hearing scheduled for Wednesday August
10, 2022, and gave him the opportunity to show cause why the Panel should not issue further
sanctions based on his violations of the August 27, 2021 Disposition Agreement.

The second Show Cause hearing was conducted on August 10, 2022. During his
presentation to Panel A, Mr. Henson admitted that he had violated the terms and conditions of his
Disposition Agreement and Participation Rehabilitation Agreement. The administrative prosecutor
summarized the evidence in support of Mr. Henson’s violation and recommended suspension of
Mr. Henson’s license.

Order After Show Cause Hearing: August 23, 2022

On August 23, 2022, Panel A issued an Order After Show Cause Hearing finding that Mr.
Henson violated the August 27, 2021, Disposition Agreement. Panel A terminated the Disposition
Agreement, reprimanded Mr. Henson, suspended Mr. Henson’s nuclear medicine technology
license for a minimum of six months, required him to reenroll in and remain enrolled in MPRP,
and to continue in a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan until
MPRP found and notified the Board that Mr. Henson could safely resume the practice of nuclear
medicine technology. The Order explicitly and unambiguously prohibited Mr. Henson from
practicing as a nuclear medicine technologist while suspended. In the Order, Panel A:

ORDERED that during the suspension period, Mr. Henson shall not:

(a) practice as a nuclear medicine technologist;

2 Mr. Henson confirmed that there had been no change to his email address.

4
(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of nuclear medicine
technology services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Mr. Henson’s name or provider number by any
health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility
in the State; or

(e) perform any other act that requires an active nuclear medical technologist license.

In addition, the Order stated that:

If Mr. Henson allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Order, Mr. Henson shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing.. If the
disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary
panel; and, if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a

material fact, Mr. Henson shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary
panel. :

Panel A further:
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that Mr. Henson has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed -by this
Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand Mr. Henson, place Mr. Henson on
probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke Mr.
Henson’s license to practice nuclear medicine technology in Maryland. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine upon Mr. Henson
On September 20, 2022, Mr. Henson reenrolled in MPRP, and signed a new Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement that was in effect from September 20, 2022 to March 20, 2023.

Current Violation
Violation of the August 2022 Order

On February 22, 2023, a representative of a health care facility (the “Facility”)’ notified

the Board that Mr. Henson had actively worked as a nuclear medicine technologist for the Facility

3 For confidentiality reasons, the name of the Facility will not be disclosed in this Order.

5
while his license was suspended, and that the Facility terminated his employment for this reason.
The notification stated in part:

I am writing to report a concern. Fysal Henson was hired by [the Facility] as a

Nuclear Medicine Technologist on 8/23/2021. At the time of hire and background

screening, his license appeared active and without restriction or reprimand. Since

hire, the attached occurred in which it appears that he violated orders from MBOP

and subsequently had his license suspended effective 8/23/22. In the order it states

that he is not allowed to work in a nuclear medicine technologist capacity for a

minimum of six months and until remediation of the deficiencies in the order. He

did not notify our organization of this action or the suspension and subsequently

continued to work actively as a Nuclear Medicine Technologist at our facility until

Monday, 2/20/23 when the suspension was discovered. Upon discovery, he was

immediately removed from the schedule and suspended, and subsequently

terminated today for working with a suspended license.

On February 22, 2023, Mr. Henson telephoned a Board staff person for instructions on
reinstating his license. During the conversation, Mr. Henson stated that during his license
suspension, he was employed at a gas station and had not been working as a nuclear medicine
technologist during the suspension period.

As part of its ensuing investigation into Mr. Henson’s compliance with the August 2022
Order, the Board obtained the Facility’s human resources file on Mr. Henson. The file documented
that from or about August 23, 2022, through on or about February 22, 2023, Mr. Henson worked
as a nuclear medicine technologist, either on an on-call basis or at the Facility itself while
suspended under the August 2022 Order. The file further documented that the Facility terminated
Mr. Henson’s employment on or about February 22. 2023.

In a letter dated March 3, 2022, the Board informed Mr. Henson that it had received
information he had been actively working as a nuclear medicine technologist at the Facility from

August 23, 2022 until February 22, 2023, during the time his license was suspended. The Board

requested that Mr. Henson address the matter in a written response. On March 8, 2023, Mr. Henson
responded by acknowledging that he worked as a nuclear medicine technologist at the facility
while suspended, claiming that “{d]uring my suspension I was only there a hand full of times.”

On March 20, 2023, MPRP reported to the Board that Mr. Henson was reminded by MPRP
during his enrollment process that he was unable to work in Maryland as a nuclear medicine
technologist based on the August 2022 Order suspending his license. MPRP also informed the
Board that Mr. Henson indicated his understanding of the suspension and that part of his
enrollment with MPRP was complying with all aspects of his Order. Because Mr. Henson
continued to work as a nuclear medicine technologist during his suspension without disclosing this
fact, MPRP informed Mr. Henson that he was not in compliance with his rehabilitation plan and
closed his case for cause effective March 20, 2023.

On April 19, 2023, Panel A issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause
charging Mr. Henson with violating the August 2022 Order and his Participation Agreement with
MPRP. The charges were based on the Board’s investigation revealing that he practiced as a
nuclear medicine technologist, held himself out to the public as a current provider of nuclear
medicine technology services, and/or performed acts that required an active nuclear medicine
technology license, from August 23, 2022, through February 22, 2023, while his license was
suspended,

Third Show Cause Hearing: July 12, 2023

On July 12, 2023, Panel A held a show cause hearing at which Mr. Henson appeared. He
stated he did not know that his work at the Facility and being on-call as a nuclear medicine
technologist from August 23, 2022, through February 22, 2023, were actions that violated the

August 2022 Order.
In response, the State summarized and expressed concerns about Mr. Henson’s disciplinary
history since 2021 and the evidence of his prohibited practice as a nuclear medicine technologist
at the Facility throughout his six-month suspension. The State noted that despite Panel A’s
forbearance regarding Mr. Henson’s previous violations of his 2021 Disposition Agreement and
rehabilitation agreement with MPRP, Mr. Henson was again before Panel A based on yet another
violation of a disciplinary order and MPRP rehabilitation agreement, this time for ignoring the
clear prohibition on practicing while suspended. The State further argued that Mr. Henson’s non-
compliance with Panel A’s August 2022 Order warranted a progressive sanction in the hope of
deterring any future violations.

Based upon the reports from the Facility and MPRP, and the information presented at the
Show Cause hearing, Panel A finds that Mr. Henson failed to comply with the conditions of his
August 22, 2022 Order and Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Panel A concludes that Mr. Henson violated the August 2022 Order by continuing to
practice as a nuclear medicine technologist from August 23, 2022, through F ebruary 22, 2023,
despite his license being suspended.

SANCTION

The issue of imposing an appropriate sanction requires that the panel consider the specific
facts in the entire record, and tailor a sanction accordingly. While Panel A commends Mr. Henson
for his rehabilitation efforts since September 2022 while reenrolled in the MPRP rehabilitation
plan, Mr. Henson’s continued practice during the suspension of his license is of serious concern to
Panel A, especially given the previous opportunities granted to him by the panel. Equally

disturbing to the panel are Mr. Henson’s failure to notify the Facility of his suspension, his
statements to Board staff that he had not been working as a nuclear medicine technologist during
his suspension, and his subsequent attempts to trivialize the seriousness of his continued prohibited
practice in his written response to Board staff and in his presentation at the Show Cause hearing.
Since 2021, Mr. Henson has been given multiple chances to prove to Panel A, by undergoing
rehabilitation with MPRP, that he is committed to remediating his conduct. He failed to do so. The
panel will not ignore its deterrent function. Neither the public nor the nuclear medicine technology
profession would be served if Panel A ignores Mr. Henson’s unwillingness or inability to abide by
the panel’s directives. Accordingly, Panel A will reprimand Mr. Henson and suspend his nuclear
medicine technology license for an additional six-month period.
ORDER

It is, on an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby
ORDERED that the August 23, 2022 Order is terminated; and it is further
ORDERED that Fysal Henson, NMT, is REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that the nuclear medicine technologist license of Mr. Henson, license number
N01623, is SUSPENDED*® for an additional minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS; and it is further
ORDERED that during the suspension period, Mr. Henson shall not at any time:
(a) practice as a nuclear medicine technologist;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of nuclear
medicine technology services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Mr. Henson’s name or provider number by
any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

4 Mr. Henson’s nuclear medicine technologist license expired on April 30, 2023. The time period of the suspension
and the conditions of suspension are tolled until Mr. Henson applies for reinstatement and administratively reinstates
his nuclear medicine technologist license under the relevant provisions of COMAR 10.32.10.13B. The additional
suspension period and any conditions imposed by this Order will go into effect if and when Mr. Henson’s license is
administratively reinstated. COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a).

9
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care
facility in the State; or

(e) perform any other act that requires an active nuclear medical technologist license;
and it is further

ORDERED that Mr. Henson shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it is

further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after a minimum of six months has passed and Mr. Henson has fully and
satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension, Mr. Henson may submit a
written petition to the Board requesting termination of the suspension. Mr. Henson may be required
to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. After a determination
that Mr. Henson has fully and satisfactorily complied with the relevant terms and conditions of the
suspension, the disciplinary panel may administratively terminate Mr. Henson’s suspension
through an order of the disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Mr. Henson allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Mr. Henson shall be given notice and an opportunity fora hearing. If the
disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be
before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and, if the disciplinary panel determines there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, Mr. Henson shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Mr. Henson has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary

panel may reprimand Mr. Henson, place Mr. Henson on probation with appropriate terms and

10
