 

Sofian J. Al-Khatib, M.D.

pate: 10 /o F/Q016

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair, Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians

4th Floor

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Re: Surrender of Unlicensed Medical Practitioner Registration
Registration Number: P32070
Case Number: 2016-0366B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that | have decided to SURRENDER my registration to
practice as an unlicensed medical practitioner in the State of Maryland, Registration
Number P32070, effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my
registration, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il ("Health Occ. II") §§ 14-101 ef seq. (2014
Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my registration means that | am
in the same position as an unlicensed/unregistered individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and that
upon the acceptance of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the "Board"), becomes a FINAL ORDER of the panel.

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of me after a health care
facility (the "Facility") in Maryland where | was enrolled in a fellowship reported that |
took a leave of absence from duty following an emergency room visit to an outside
hospital for an opioid overdose. On June 28, 2016, Disciplinary Panel B issued
disciplinary charges against me under the Act and Md. Code Regs. ("COMAR’") in which
it alleged that while enrolled in a fellowship at the Facility, | used illicit substances and
had been hospitalized on two separate occasions for opioid overdoses. A copy of
Disciplinary Panel B's disciplinary charges is attached hereto and incorporated herein.

| have decided to surrender my registration to practice as an unlicensed medical
practitioner in the State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges now pending before the Board. If the disciplinary charges in this case were to
 

proceed to a hearing, | agree that the State would be able to prove that | violated the
following provisions of COMAR 10.32.07.07C: (4) Immoral or unprofessional conduct of
the unlicensed medical practitioner in the postgraduate training program; and (7)
Practicing medicine while: (b) Using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
defined in Criminal Law Article, Annotated Code of Maryland, or other drug that is in
excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication. For purposes related
to registration/medical licensure, these charges will be treated as proven.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned disciplinary
charges under the Act and COMAR.

| understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, | am waiving my right to
contest the disciplinary charges issued by Disciplinary Panel B and its investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which | would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and to all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that | have surrendered
my registration in lieu of further disciplinary action under the Act. | also understand that
in the event | would apply for registration or licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction, this Letter of Surrender and any underlying investigative documents may be
released or published by the Board or Disciplinary Panel B to the same extent as a Final
Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Disciplinary Panel B.

| affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, | will present to the Board
my original Maryland unlicensed medical practitioner registration, registration number
P32070. | also affirm that | will provide access to and copies of patient medical records
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
registration will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that | apply for reinstatement of my Maryland registration, | understand that
Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant
reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers
appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the
profession. | further understand that if | file a petition for reinstatement, | will approach
Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose registration has
been revoked. | also understand that if | apply for reinstatement, | bear the burden of
demonstrating my professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the
satisfaction of Panel B or its successor.
 

12. The Respondent was observed in the ED for approximately two hours,
during which time he refused treatment for substance abuse. The Respondent
announced his intention to leave AMA. The Respondent, however, refused to sign the
AMA form. Hospital security escorted the Respondent out of the Hospital due to
concerns about his aggressive behavior and to ensure the safety of Hospital staff.

13. The Hospital diagnosed the Respondent as having an opiate overdose.

14. During his ED admission, the Respondent stated to Hospital staff that he
was a Critical care physician in a local training program. Senior Hospital staff contacted
the Facility to report concerns that the Respondent represented a danger to himself and
to his patients.

15. After this incident, a Hospital staff member contacted the Respondent to
discuss his/her concerns about the Respondent's substance abuse issues. During this
conversation, the Respondent expressed a desire to receive help.

16. After receiving the above information from the Hospital, Facility officials
confronted the Respondent about his recent ED admissions. The Respondent stated
that he had used benzodiazepines the night before his ED admission on November 16,
2015. Facility officials required the Respondent to undergo a fitness evaluation due to
his statement about his drug use on November 15-16, 2015, his failure to report for
work on November 16, 2015, and his two admissions to the Hospital for drug
overdoses.

17. The Facility documented several reports that the Respondent had
behavioral issues during his fellowship, including an incident occurring on or about

September 20, 2015, in which he was rude and disrespectful toward a nurse; a report
 

dated October 22, 201 5, in which he had to be called back to finish his shift, missed his
rounds, and was reported sleeping during his shift; and another incident in which he
failed to appear for a work presentation and did not respond to an email related to the
missed presentation within 24 hours.

18. The Respondent underwent urine toxicology testing on November 17,
2015. The Respondent was not directly observed when providing the sample. The
testing was negative for both opiates and benzodiazepines. Shortly after this test,
Facility staff asked the Respondent to provide a second urine sample, which the
Respondent refused to provide. The Respondent also refused to sign a release for the
Hospital's medical records.

19. The Respondent took a leave of absence from his Facility fellowship,
effective November 17, 2015, and on or about November 23, 2015, submitted his
resignation from the fellowship, effective December 9, 2015.

20. _ By letter dated March 1, 2016, the Board notified the Respondent to report
to a laboratory for drug and alcohol testing. After the Respondent requested an
alternative date from the one the Board assigned, the Board scheduled this testing for
March 15, 2016. On March 15, 2016, the Respondent presented for this testing. The
Respondent had shaved his head, which precluded the laboratory from performing a
hair analysis.

21. | Onor about March 15, 2016, the Respondent was interviewed by a Board
investigator. When asked about his inability to provide a hair sample to the laboratory,
the Respondent claimed that sometime prior to the testing, he shaved off all of his hair

due to religious reasons and also to decrease his swim lap times.
 

IV. Grounds for Discipline

22. The Respondent's actions, as described above, constitute, in whole or in
part, a violation of one or more of the following provisions of COMAR 10.32.07.07C: (4)
Immoral or unprofessional conduct of the unlicensed medical practitioner in the
postgraduate training program; and (7) Practicing medicine while: (b) Using any
narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in Criminal Law Article,
Annotated Code of Maryland, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or
without valid medical indication.

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board finds that there are grounds
for action under COMAR 10.32.07.07, it may impose disciplinary sanctions against the
Respondent's registration, including reprimand, probation, suspension, revocation, or
other action including, but not limited to, limiting the privilege to practice, requiring
further education, or admonishment. .

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION
CONFERENCE, PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

A conference before Disciplinary Panel B, sitting as the Disciplinary Committee
for Case Resolution (“DCCR’) in this matter, is scheduled for Wednesday, September
28, 2016, at 9:00 a.m., at the Board’s office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,
Maryland 21215. The Respondent must confirm in writing his intention to attend the
DCCR. The Respondent should send written confirmation of his intention to participate
in the DCCR to: Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, Maryland State Board of
Physicians, 4201 Patterson Avenue, 4°" Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature

and purpose of the DCCR is described in the attached letter to the Respondent.
 

If the case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a pre-hearing conference and a
hearing in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101
Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in
accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State

Gov't II §§ 10-201 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.).

BRIAN E. FROSH
ATTORNE IARYLAND

    

June 2¢. 2016
Date

 

Robert J. Gilbert, Deputy Counsel
Health Occupations Prosecution and Litigation
Division
Office of the Attorney General
300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
 

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Disciplinary Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney
prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. | understand both the nature of Disciplinary
Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. |
voluntarily choose to surrender my Maryland unlicensed medical practitioner registration
pursuant to the terms and conditions set out herein. | make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Sofian J. Al-Khatib, M.D.
NOTARY
STATE OF ‘a

CITYICOUNTY OF Dawsrnville Dawson

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 1 day of Octobe y__, 2016 before me,
a Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Sofian J. Al-Khatib,
M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

 

AS WITNESSETH my hand and Notarial seal.

ARPS? %,

,
G |

iv # ae A

2h EF Notary Public

My commis san Gaes:
Apri | 41,2018

   
 
   

 

 

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this iia of Cetoter 2016, |,

Christine A. Farrelly, accept Sofian J. Al-Khatib, M.D.’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of his

license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. A
( etn ee)

 
 
 

 
 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

SOFIAN J. AL-KHATIB, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

Registration Number: P32070 * Case Number: 2016-0366B

* * * * * * * * * * x *

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT
Disciplinary Panel B ("Panel B") of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby charges SOFIAN J. AL-KHATIB, M.D. (the “Respondent”), Registration
Number P32070, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II’) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2015
Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. ("COMAR") 10.32.07.07.
The pertinent provision of the Act provides:
Health Occ. Il § 14-302 Exceptions from licensing -- In general.
Subject to the rules, regulations, and orders of the Board, the following
individuals may practice medicine without a license if the individuals
submit to a criminal history records check in accordance with § 14-308.1
of this subtitle:
(1) A medical student or an individual in a postgraduate medical
training program that is approved by the Board, while doing
the assigned duties at any office of a licensed physician,
hospital, clinic or similar facility[.]
Panel B charges the Respondent with violating the following provisions of
COMAR 10.32.07.07:
COMAR 10.32.07.07 Prohibited Conduct, Hearings, and Appeals.

C. The following causes constitute grounds for discipline:
 

(4) Immoral or unprofessional conduct of the unlicensed
medical practitioner in the practice of medicine: [and]

(7) Practicing medicine while:

(b) Using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance as defined in Criminal Law Article,
Annotated Code of Maryland, or other drug
that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or
without valid medical indication[.]

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT’

 

Panel B bases its charges on the following facts that it has reason to believe are
true:
I. Background/Licensing Information

1. In or around 2015, the Respondent enrolled in a critical care fellowship at
a health care facility (the "Facility"? that is located in the State of Maryland. In
conjunction with his proposed enroliment in this fellowship program, the Respondent, in
or around April 2015, submitted an application to the Board to register as an unlicensed
medical practitioner ("UMP") at the Facility.

2. The Board registered the Respondent as an UMP at the Facility for the
period beginning July 1, 2015, and continuing until June 30, 2016. The Respondent

began practicing medicine in the fellowship on or about July 1, 2015.

‘ The allegations set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the
Panel B's action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of
the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with
this action.

2 To ensure confidentiality, the names of all health care facilities, hospitals, business entities and all other
individuals referenced herein will not be disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the
identities of any health care facility, hospital, business entity or individual referenced herein by contacting
the assigned administrative prosecutor.
 

I. The Complaint

3. On or about November 23, 2015, the Facility notified the Board through
two Mandated 10-Day Reports (the Reports") that: (a) effective November 17, 201 5,
the Respondent took a leave of absence from duty following an emergency room visit to
an outside hospital for an opioid overdose; and (b) on November 23, 2015, the
Respondent submitted his resignation from the fellowship program, effective December
9, 2015.
Hl. Board Investigative allegations

4. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent based on the
above Reports. The Board's investigation determined that the Respondent, while
enrolled in a fellowship program at the Facility, engaged in immoral or unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine and/or practiced medicine while using a narcotic or
controlled substance or other drug in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid
medical indication. The Board's investigation determined that while enrolled as an UMP
at the Facility, the Respondent was hospitalized on two separate occasions for opioid
overdoses. On both occasions, Emergency Medical Services ("EMS") personnel
responded to motels in Baltimore County (both of which were in close geographic
proximity) where they found the Respondent in an unconscious state. On both
occasions, EMS personnel administered naloxone? to the Respondent and transported
him to the emergency department ("ED") of a nearby hospital (the “Hospital") for
emergency treatment, where he was diagnosed with opiate overdoses. During these
incidents, the Respondent admitted to using illicit substances, including but not limited

° Naloxone, sold under the brand name Narcan, is a prescription medication that blocks the effects of
opioids and reverses opioid overdoses. It is indicated for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose.

3
 

to heroin (an opioid and Schedule | controlled dangerous substance ("CDS")). Other
individuals associated with the Respondent also reported that the Respondent was
using heroin and/or illicit substances, as set forth below.

ED admission, September 24, 2015

5. On or about September 24, 2015, EMS personnel responded to a motel in
Baltimore County ("Motel A") where, at approximately 10:50 a.m., they found the
Respondent lying supine on the floor of a room of the motel, in an unconscious state.
The Respondent was profusely diaphoretic with low respirations. EMS personnel
administered naloxone to the Respondent. Once responsive, the Respondent admitted
to EMS personnel that he had used heroin. EMS reports state that the Respondent had
several visible "track marks."

6. EMS personnel transported the Respondent to the ED of the Hospital.
While being assessed in the ED, the Respondent admitted to using intravenous heroin
on a weekly basis and also reported a history of "injecting meth." The Respondent was
diagnosed as having an “accidental drug overdose." The Respondent was stabilized,
stated his intention to sign out "AMA,"* and was discharged from the Hospital.

ED admission, November 16, 2015

7. On or about November 16, 2015, EMS personnel responded to another
motel in Baltimore County ("Motel B") where, at approximately 1:28 a.m., they found the
Respondent lying on the floor of a room at the motel, in an unresponsive state, with
large amounts of vomit on and around him. EMS personnel described the Respondent

as having "agonal respirations, skin was cynotic (sic), pale, clammy." EMS reports state

4 AMA is an acronym for against medical advice.
 

that the Respondent's friends called "911" after they found him unresponsive and that
“he is known to use heroin."

8. EMS personnel administered naloxone to the Respondent and transported
him to the ED of the Hospital for further evaluation. Upon arrival to the ED, the
Respondent was hypoxic, vomited, and had to be suctioned. ED records state that
EMS personnel found the Respondent with a needle by his side.

9. ED personnel administered naloxone to the Respondent. Shortly
thereafter, the Respondent began cursing at, and became belligerent, threatening,
confrontational and aggressive toward, Hospital staff. At one point, the Respondent
stated to a staff member that he was a physician in Georgia and that he "came to
Maryland to get high." The Respondent removed cardiac monitor leads and other
monitoring equipment, pulled out his intravenous line, engaged in aggressive and
abusive behavior toward a staff member, and made racial epithets toward her.

10. During the course of his ED admission, the Respondent made aggressive,
sexually demeaning and violent comments against staff members who were attempting
to attend to him. The Respondent refused all diagnostic testing, except for a chest x-
ray, and told a physician, "if you don't have any labs, you don't have any proof."
Hospital staff asked the Respondent to provide a urine specimen, whereupon the
Respondent filled the specimen container with water.

11. An individual who identified herself as a close family member of the
Respondent stated that she found the Respondent at the motel, that he had a history of

drug abuse, had used heroin and had overdosed prior to the arrival of EMS personnel.
