pate: NWN GAIVIO

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re; Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Christopher Montgomery, Radiographer

License Number: R01025

Case Number: 2220-0196

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number: R01025, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice
radiography in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Radiation Therapy,
Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act (the “Act”),
Health Occ. §§ 14-5B-01 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B’”’) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”.

I acknowledge that the Board received notification from a facility in Maryland
that my employment at the facility had been terminated for communicating with
coworkers in an unprofessional manner and that the Board initiated an investigation into
the allegations. I have decided to surrender my license to practice radiography in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and
due to my current health conditions and planned retirement. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to radiography licensure that these allegations shall be treated as
proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-
5B-14(a)(3).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
 

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Christopher Montgomery, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. J also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2019 Repl.
Vol.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, | will approach Panel B or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice radiography in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours, f
Signature on File

Radiographer
voy 7 — Xapoeree
WMG,

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Christopher Montgomery, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF lM )
CITY/COUNTY OF A | Lega MUL f

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Z day of June , 2020 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared (S1OL Mere
Radiographer, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of

this Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial /)
/

/

  

\
ey BABIC, ig Ft
SHAS MEE.
STN 4 2 Notary Public

  

o AU Fiyzy,
\

x

%

 

5,
oS

NS Jon 5 :

 

 

at S commission expires:
Nseccsaser “Ss = / 0 /; 45 / L>.

any COW

OTS

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 4 Fe of June , 2020, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Christopher Montgomery,
Radiographer’s license to practice radiography in the State of Maryland.

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Ex cy Ny Directoy/
Maryland Board of Phys
