 

Michelle Wyrick, Radiographer

Date: ZlS | 1S

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Michelle Wyrick, Radiographer, License Number: R01647
Case Number: 7715-0102

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R01647, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice radiography in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear
Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act (the “Act’), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. §§ 14-5B-01 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.) and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B’’) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation concerning my decision to
cease compliance with certain rehabilitation obligations and conditions of an agreement I
entered into with the Board. I have decided to surrender my license to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation of the non-compliance
with the agreement.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid additional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the agreement. I do not wish to contest that I have failed to comply with the
agreement. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to contest any violation that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Michelle Wyrick, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license as
if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until Panel B grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked. I also
understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my
professional competence and fitness to practice radiography to the satisfaction of Panel B
or its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice radiography in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on Fi ile, diographer
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Michelle Wyrick, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY
STATE OF yey Ads
CITY/COUNTY OF (accel!
=
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this _ day of {2 2evacy. , 2018 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Michelle Wyrick,
Radiographer, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of

this Letter of Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

Notary Public
Co

My commission expires: /© /!2 I3

ACCEPTANCE

 

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this B tC day of Fubvi va 2018, I, Christine
A. Farrelly, accept Michelle Wyrick’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of hey license to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland.

  
    

Christine A. Farrell
Maryland Board of Physicians
