Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer

Date: 04] hd 2020

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer

License Number: R02592

Case Number: 7721-0007

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5B-13 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R02592, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice
radiography, with or without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology
Assistance Act (the “‘Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5B-01 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

1 acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice, summarily
suspended my license to practice radiography on July 9, 2019, and on July 26, 2019, Panel
B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(3)(is guilty of
unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of radiography), (4)(is professionally,
physically, or mentally incompetent), and (8)(i)(provided professional services while under
the influence of alcohol). I resolved these disciplinary charges through a Consent Order
with Panel B, dated October 4, 2019, in which Panel B found that I violated Health Oce. §
14-5B-14(a)(3), (4), and (8)(i). The Consent Order terminated the July 9, 2019 summary
suspension of my license and suspended my license for a minimum of six (6) months with
certain terms and conditions, including that I enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (MPRP). A copy of the Consent Order is attached and incorporated
herein as Attachment 1.
Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

On July 13, 2020, Disciplinary Panel B issued an Order Terminating Suspension
and Imposing Probation that terminated the suspension of my license, placed me on
probation for a minimum of three (3) years, and required that I continue enrollment in
MPRP and continue to comply with all of the requirements imposed by MPRP. A copy of
the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation is attached and incorporated
herein as Attachment 2.

1 have decided to surrender my license to practice radiography in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation and because 1 am no longer working as a radiographer.
I acknowledge that the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation remains
and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the
Letter of Surrender, | will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Order as
long as I do not have or possess an active radiography license in Maryland.

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the Order Terminating Suspension and
Imposing Probation. | do not wish to contest these allegations. 1 understand that by
executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to contest any charges that would
issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which 1 would
have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on
my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

1 understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action
by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board or a disciplinary panel of the Board
grants reinstatement. In the event that ] apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, |
understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose terms and conditions in conformity with or in
addition to those set forth in the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation. I
further understand that if 1 ever file a petition for reinstatement, 1 will approach Panel B or
its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

l acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice radiography is
SUSPENDED’ for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS.* During the suspension, the
Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions of the suspension:

The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program

(MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to
authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and

files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information conceming the Respondent and to
ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the

4 During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not: ,

(1) practice radiography;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold herself out to the public as a current provider
of radiography services; or

(3) perform any other act that requires an active radiography license.

5 Ifthe Respondent’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions
will be tolled.
Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol

evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
telease/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of
this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further
ORDERED that after a minimum period of six months, if the Respondent has fully
and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension and if MPRP
finds, and notifies the Board, that the Respondent is safe to return to the practice of
radiography, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to
terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s license. The Respondent may be required to
appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss her petition for termination. If the
disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of
radiography, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel.
Upon termination, the Respondent will be placed on PROBATION for a minimum period
of THREE (3) YEARS, and the disciplinary panel may impose, at that time, any
probationary terms and conditions it deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to
practice, including, but not limited to, continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in

MPRP. Ifthe disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return

to the practice of radiography, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the
disciplinary pane! until there is a determination by the disciplinary panel that it is safe for
the Respondent to return to practice; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel: and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice
radiography in Maryland, The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the
sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent

Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly, Eke utiye Directof’/
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

CONSENT

I, Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer, assert that I am aware of my right to consult
with and be represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any
proceedings that would otherwise result from the charges currently pending. I have chosen
to proceed without counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel
is freely and voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

J assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered

after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to

10
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections, I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order, I waive all rights
to appeal this Consent Order.

1 sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms.

Signature on File

Elizabeth 1 Myers, Radiographo?
Respondent

 

NOTARY

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this ~ 5% day of Ss: cheprhy 32019, before me,

 

a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Elizabeth L,
Myers, Radiographer, and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

My Commission expires:

 
Attachment 2
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ELIZABETH L. MYERS, Radiographer = * MARYLAND STATE BOARD

Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: R02592 * Case Number: 7720-0035
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION
AND IMPOSING PROBATION

On October 4, 2019, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B” or the “Panel”) of the Maryland
State Board of Physicians and Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer (“Respondent”) entered into a
Consent Order to resolve charges against the Respondent that Panel B had issued under the
Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology
Assistance Act. See Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-5B-01—14-5B-21. Under the Consent
Order, Panel B concluded that the Respondent violated § 14-SB-14(a)(3),' (4),? and (8)(i)' of the
Health Occupations Article, and, as a sanction, the Respondent’s license to practice radiography
in Maryland was suspended for a minimum of six months.* While under suspension, the
Respondent was ordered to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program. Also,
under the Consent Order, if the Respondent complied with the terms of the suspension and the
Panel determined it was safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of radiography, the
suspension would be terminated and the Respondent would be placed on probation for a

minimum period of three years, subject to any probationary terms and conditions Panel B

deemed appropriate.

‘ Unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of radiography.

* Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent.

+ Provided professional services while under the influence of alcohol.

“On July 9, 2019, Panel B summarily suspended the Respondent’s license. Under the Consent
Order, the summary suspension was terminated because it was superseded by the Consent Order.
Six months have passed since the effective date of the suspension, the Respondent has
complied with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order, and the Panel has determined that
it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of radiography.

It is, thus, by Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the suspension of the Respondent’s license to practice radiography in
Maryland, imposed on October 4, 2019, is TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of

THREE YEARS.’ During the probationary period, the Respondent shall comply with the

following terms and conditions of probation:

The Respondent shall be enrolled in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program

(“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) the Respondent shall be entered into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(b) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and

comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(c) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this order;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. The Respondent shall not withdraw her release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shail also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (ie., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including,

‘If the Respondent’s license expires while the probation is in effect, the probation and its terms
and conditions will be tolled.
but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment

records. The Respondent shall not withdraw her release/consent; and it is
further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the

terms and conditions of this order; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this order; and it is
further

ORDERED that the effective date of the order is the date the order is signed by the
Exccutive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee signs
the order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this
order; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the minimum period of probation imposed by this order has
passed, if the Respondent has been compliant with the terms and conditions of this order, and
MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the Respondent is safe to return to the practice of
radiography without the probationary conditions, the Respondent may submit a written petition
to the Panel for the termination of: probation. The Respondent may be required by the Panel to
appear before it to discuss her petition. After consideration of the petition, if the Respondent has
complied with all probationary terms and conditions and the Panel determines that it is safe for
the Respondent to practice radiography without probationary conditions, the probation will be
terminated by an order of the Panel. If the Panel determines it is not safe for the Respondent to
practice radiography without probationary conditions, the probation will be continued through an
order of the Panel for a time period that the Panel determines is appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition

imposed by this order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If
the disciplinary pancl determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall
be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is
no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing
before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on further probation
with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend the Respondent’s license to practice
radiography in Maryland with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent's
license to practice radiography in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or
more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is
further

ORDERED that this order is a publie document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

41 1.1(b)(2) and Gen, Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Lo Signature on File

Date Christine A. Farrell , Exec\ttive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer

NOTARY
STATE OF May y leu wo
CITY/COUNTY OF oj | Hs move
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this jj day of 2) :_ , 2020 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appedred Elizabeth L. Myers, and

declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

     

Notary Publi

o3/oz [2022)

ACCEPTANCE

My commission expires:

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this Iv “aay of , 2020, I, Christine A.
Farrelly, accept Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of her
license to practice radiography in the State of Maryland.

je e
Signature on File
Christine A. Farfelly, Executive Dire¢tor

Maryland Board of Physicians

   
  

Griginl Socumeni. Certiiod ins
woe lanl te 2220
My commission expires 03/02 ul 2034

Brent ley aD Serle 4
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ELIZABETH L. MYERS * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: R02592 * Case Number: 2219-0195B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On July 26, 2019, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged ELIZABETH L. MYERS, Radiographer (the
“Respondent”), License Number R02592, under the Maryland Radiation Therapy,
Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §§ 14-5B-01 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018
Supp.).

The Respondent was charged under the following provisions of Health Occ. § 14-
5B-14 (a):

Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this title, a disciplinary panel, on

the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may deny

a license to any applicant, reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,

or suspend or revoke a license, if the applicant or licensee:

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of radiation

therapy, radiography, nuclear medicine technology, or radiology assistance;

(4) _ Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;

(8) Provides professional services while:

(i) - Under the influence of alcohol[.]
On September 25, 2019, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for
Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of
the DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings
of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.
FINDINGS OF FACT.
L BACKGROUND
I. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed
to practice radiography in Maryland on December 20, 1991, under license
number R02592. The Respondent’s license expires on April 30, 2021.
2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as an MRI
Technologist at a hospital in Maryland (“the Facility”)', from approximately
March 2014, through April 3, 2019, at which time she resigned her position.
3. The Respondent is currently employed as a Staff MRI Technologist at a different
hospital in Maryland where she began employment in May 2019.
4. On April 4, 2019, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report? from the

Facility documenting that the Respondent resigned her employment in lieu of

4 For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and facilities involved in this case are not disclosed
in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and facilities referenced in this document
by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

2Md. Code Ann, Health Occ. §§14-5B-15 requires that within 10 days of an action hospitals report any action taken
against a licensee which limits, reduces, otherwise changes, or terminates any licensee for any reason that might be
grounds for disciplinary action under Health Occ. § 14-5B-14.

2
I.

termination after testing positive for alcohol on or about March 11, 2019,
following a “for-cause” Fitness for Duty (“FFD”’) evaluation.

BOARD INVESTIGATION
The Board opened a full investigation based on the information received in the
Mandated 10-Day Report.
On or about April 11, 2019, Board staff sent a subpoena to the Facility for the
Respondent’s complete personnel file, which the Board received on or about
May 14, 2019.
A teview of the Respondent’s personnel file revealed that on March 11, 2019,
the Respondent’s Supervisor (“the Supervisor”) referred the Respondent for an
FFD evaluation duc to suspicion that the Respondent was under the influence
while on duty. The Supervisor stated that he observed the Respondent make
several mistakes while scanning a patient’s spine and described her behavior as
“clearly impaired.” The FFD evaluation report included a section entitled
Employee’s Summary which reads, “I was intoxicated yesterday...I drank a few
beers before coming into work...my manager felt | was out of sorts, not my
normal self...”
The FFD evaluation included laboratory testing, the results of which indicated

that the Respondent tested positive for alcohol at 0.24 g/dl, with a collection date

of March 11, 2019.
On or about May 24, 2019, Board staff sent an initial contact letter notifying the
Respondent that a full investigation had been opened and requesting a written
response within ten business days.

On or about June 3, 2019, Board staff received the Respondent’s written
response and other materials as directed by the initial contact letter. In her written
response, the Respondent stated that on March 11, 2019, she “did have a few
drinks” but thought that it would be out of her system before she began her shift.
On or about June 12, 2019, Board staff conducted an interview under oath with
the Supervisor.

During the interview the Supervisor stated that on March 11, 2019, another
technician on his team asked him to come observe the Respondent, whom they
believed was acting strangely. The Supervisor then observed the Respondent
conducting a scan of a patient. He observed that her positioning of the scan was
incorrect and asked her to repeat it; she repeated the scan and achieved the exact
same incorrect positioning result. The Supervisor stated that he thought that it
was odd for the Respondent to repeat the same mistake given the Respondent’s
level of experience. Based on these observations he asked her to step aside and
asked her if she was feeling alright. The Respondent stated that she was fine but
the Supervisor was not convinced by her response and asked if she needed to be
sent for an FFD evaluation. The Supervisor stated that she responded “Please do

not send me for a fitness-for-duty.” At this point the Supervisor asked the
13.

15.

16.

Respondent if she would fail, to which she responded “T might.” At that point he
sent her for the FFD evaluation.

The Supervisor escorted the Respondent to have the FFD evaluation
administered. The Supervisor stated that at this point it appeared that she was
“clearly under the influence of something.” The two of them arrived at the
waiting room where the FFD would be administered and continued conversing.
The Supervisor stated that at this point the Respondent admitted that she had
been drinking, after which he did not ask her any further questions, and the FFD
was subsequently administered and returned a positive result for alcohol.

On June 17, 2019, Board staff conducted an interview with the Respondent
under oath.

The Respondent stated that on the night prior to the incident she did some
drinking, but decided to report to work the next day for her shift at approximately
3:00 pm on March 11, 2019 because she did not want to leave her co-workers
short-staffed. When she arrived at work her coworkers noticed that her behavior
was abnormal, and she was ultimately sent for an FFD where a urine test was
conducted which came back positive for alcohol.

The Respondent stated that she began drinking the prior evening. She stated that
she drank “over the night and then in the morning around 10 or so.” When asked
what she had been drinking she stated that in the morning she drank two beers
pretty quickly to relieve some anxiety that she was experiencing. The previous
evening she began drinking vodka shots at approximately 5:00 or 6:00 pm. She

5
further stated that she stayed awake all night and continued to drink “maybe four
or five” drinks throughout the evening.*

17. The Respondent was asked whether she worked with any patients on the day in
question and responded that she did not. The Respondent was asked about the
Supervisor’s observations that she was improperly scanning a patient prior to

. her being pulled aside; she responded that she had no such recollection. The
Respondent further stated that she did not recall telling the Supervisor that she
thought she would fail the FFD, nor did she recall admitting to him that she had
been drinking.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of
radiography, in violation of Health Occ. §14-5B-14(a)(3); is professionally, physically, or
mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. §14-5B-14(a)(4); and provided
professional services while under the influence of alcohol, in violation of Health Occ. §14-
5B-14(a)(8)(i).

ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board, hereby:
ORDERED that the Summary Suspension imposed on July 9, 2019, and affirmed

on August 29, 2019, is terminated, as it is superseded by this Order; and it is further

3 Additional relevant information was disclosed by the Respondent that has not been specifically referenced in this
document for confidentiality and privacy purposes.
