IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

ELIZABETH L. MYERS * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: R02592 * Case Number: 2219-0195B

BRR A TI TI RRR RR RRR ROI ira ea a ada

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE
RADIOGRAPHY

 

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of Elizabeth L. Myers,
Radiographer (the “Respondent”), License Number R02592, to practice radiography in
the State of Maryland. Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2)(i) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), concluding that the

public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.
INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS!

I BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed
to practice radiography in Maryland on December 20, 1991, under license

number R02592. The Respondent’s license is current through April 30, 2021.

" ? The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with reasonable notice
of the alleged facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete description of the
evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent regarding this matter.
2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as an MRI
Technologist at a hospital in Maryland (“the Facility”)’, from approximately
March 2014, through April 3, 2019, at which time she resigned her position.

3. The Respondent is currently employed as a Staff MRI Technologist at a
different hospital in Maryland where she began employment in May 2019.

4, On April 4, 2019, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report’ from the
Facility documenting the resignation in lieu of termination of the Respondent’s
employment after testing positive for alcohol on or about March 11, 2019,

following a for-cause Fitness for Duty (“FFD”) evaluation.
Il. BOARD INVESTIGATION

5. The Board opened a full investigation based on the information received in the
Mandated 10-Day Report.
6. On or about April 11, 2019, Board staff sent a subpoena to the Facility for the
Respondent’s complete personnel file, which the Board received on or about
“May 14, 2019.
7. A review of the Respondent’s personnel file revealed that on March 11, 2019,
the Respondent’s Supervisor (“the Supervisor”) referred the Respondent for an

FFD evaluation due to suspicion that the Respondent was under the influence

? For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and facilities involved in. this case are not
disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and facilities referenced in this
document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

3 Md. Code Ann. H.O. §§14-5B-15 requires that within 10 days of an action hospitals report any action taken against
a licensee which limits, reduces, otherwise changes, or terminates any licensee for any reason that might be grounds
for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-5B-14.
10.

ll.

12.

while on duty. The Supervisor stated that he observed the Respondent make
several mistakes while scanning a patient’s spine and described her behavior as
“clearly impaired.” The FFD evaluation report includes a section entitled
Employee’s Summary which reads, “I was intoxicated yesterday...I drank a
few beers before coming into work...my manager felt I was out of sorts, not
my normal self...”

The FFD evaluation included laboratory testing, the results of which indicated
that the Respondent tested positive for alcohol at 0.24g/dl, with a collection
date of March 11, 2019.

On or about May 24, 2019, Board staff sent an initial contact letter notifying
the Respondent that a full investigation had been opened and requesting a
written response within ten business days.

On or about June 3, 2019, Board staff received the Respondent’s written
response and other materials as directed by the initial contact letter. In her
written response, the Respondent stated that during the day in question she
“did have a few drinks” but thought that it would be out of her system before
she began her shift.

On or about June 12, 2019, Board staff conducted an interview under oath with
the Supervisor.

During the interview the Supervisor stated that on March 11, 2019, another
technician on his team asked him to come observe the Respondent, whom they

believed was acting strangely. The Supervisor then observed the Respondent
13,

14.

15.

conducting a scan of a patient. He observed that her positioning of the scan
was incorrect and asked her to repeat it; she repeated the scan and achieved the
exact same incorrect positioning result. The Supervisor stated that he thought
that it was odd for the Respondent to repeat the same mistake given the
Respondent’s level of experience. Based on these observations he asked her to
step aside and asked her if she was feeling alright. The Respondent stated that
she was fine but the Supervisor was not convinced by her response and asked if
she needed to be sent for an FFD evaluation. The Supervisor stated that she
responded “Please do not send me for a fitness-for-duty.” At this point the
Supervisor asked the Respondent if she would fail, to which she responded “I
might.” At that point he sent her for the FFD evaluation.

The Supervisor escorted the Respondent to have the FFD evaluation
administered. The Supervisor stated that at this point it appeared that she was
“clearly under the influence of something.” The two of them arrived at the
waiting room where the FFD would be administered and continued conversing.
The Supervisor stated that at this point the Respondent admitted that she had
been drinking, after which he did not ask her any further questions, and the
FFD was subsequently administered and returned a positive result for alcohol.
On June 17, 2019, Board staff conducted an interview with the Respondent
under oath.

The Respondent stated that on the night prior to the incident she did some

drinking, but decided to report to work the next day for her shift at
approximately 3:00 pm on March 11, 2019 because she did not want to leave
her co-workers short-staffed. When she arrived at work her coworkers noticed
that her behavior was abnormal, and she was ultimately sent for an FFD where
a urine test was conducted which came back positive for alcohol.

16. The Respondent stated that she began drinking the prior evening. She stated
that she drank “over the night and then in the morning around 10 or so.” When
asked what she had been drinking she stated that in the morning she drank two
beers pretty quickly to relieve some anxiety that she was experiencing. The
previous evening she began drinking vodka shots at approximately 5:00 or
6:00 pm. She further stated that she stayed awake all night and continued to
drink “maybe four or five” drinks throughout the evening.‘

17. The Respondent was asked whether she worked with any patients on the day in
question and responded that she did not. The Respondent was asked about the
Supervisor’s observations that she was improperly scanning a patient prior to
her being pulled aside; she responded that she had no such recollection. The
Respondent further stated that she did not recall telling the Supervisor that she
thought she would fail the FFD, nor did she recall admitting to him that she

had been drinking.

* Additional relevant information was disclosed by the Respondent that has not been specifically referenced in this
document for confidentiality and privacy purposes.
CONCLUSION OF LAW.

Based on the foregoing investigative findings, Panel B concludes that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this
case, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t. § 10-226(c)(2)() (2014 Repl. Vol.

& 2018 Supp.), and Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7).
ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested by Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2), the Respondent’s license, R0O2592, to practice as a
radiographer in the State of Maryland be and is hereby SUMMARILY

SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7)(c),
D and E, a post-deprivation hearing on the Summary Suspension will be held on
July 17, 2019 at 11:15 a.m., at the Board’s offices, located at 4201 Patterson

Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing held before
Panel B, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request
within ten (10) days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within thirty

(30) days of the request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt

Valley, Maryland 21031-1301; and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order of Summary Suspension shall be filed
with the Board in accordance with Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-407 (2014

Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.); and it is further

ORDERED that this order is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1 (b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6). (2014

Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.).

07/04/2014 Signature on File

rr
Date Christine A. Farrelly ) 6}
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
