IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer * STATE BOARD OF

Respondent. * PHYSICIANS
License No. R03620 * — Case No. 7723-0009
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER AFTER SHOW CAUSE HEARING

The issue in this case is whether Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer, has violated the
conditions of the Order After Show Cause Hearing executed on August 3, 2022 (“August 2022
Order’) by the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

The August 2022 Order followed Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s violations of a Disposition
Agreement into which she entered with the Board on August 31, 2021 and a Participant
Rehabilitation. Agreement she signed in September 2021 with the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). Following notification from MPRP in October and December
2021 that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto had failed to comply with her Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement on two occasions, Panel A issued a Notice of Violation of Board Order and Notice to
Show Cause in April 2022 and held a show cause hearing on July 13, 2022. At the hearing, Ms.
Cook-Pulizzotto admitted that she violated her 2021 Disposition Agreement and her Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP. In the August 2022 Order, Panel A reprimanded Ms.
Cook-Pulizzotto, imposed a new period of probation for a minimum of two years, and required
her to remain enrolled in MPRP and fully comply with the requirements of her Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Rehabilitation Plan.

On November 8, 2022, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto had.

violated the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement required by the August 2022 Order. The Board
subsequently received from Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto a written admission of her violation and a
description of the circumstances of the violation. On January 5, 2023, Panel A issued a Violation
of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause regarding Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s alleged violation.
Panel A held a show cause hearing on February 8, 2023, at which Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto had the
opportunity to argue why her license should not be subject to further discipline. Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto and an Administrative Prosecutor for the State participated in the hearing via video
conference. Panel A is issuing this order after considering the entirety of the record, evidence,
and presentations made by Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto and the State before the Panel at the show cause
hearing held on February 8, 2023.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A makes the following Findings of Fact:

Background and Requirements of the August 31, 2021 Disposition Agreement

On November 10, 1993, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto was initially licensed by the Board to
practice radiography in the State of Maryland. In May 2019, following a report by Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto in her licensure renewal application that she received a probation before judgment
disposition for driving while under the influence of alcohol, the Board issued a non-public
Advisory Letter to Ms, Cook-Pulizzotto. The Board notified her of its concerns regarding her
underlying conduct and advised her that similar conduct in the future may be grounds for
disciplinary action.

On August 31, 2021, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto entered into a non-public Disposition
Agreement with the Board in lieu of further investigation into a possible violation of Md. Code

Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-14. The Disposition Agreement states:
The Respondent shall comply with the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement into

which she entered with the MPRP and will fulfill all conditions of the

Participation Rehabilitation Agreement.
The Disposition Agreement further provided:

AGREED, that . . . if the Respondent fails to comply with any term or condition

of this Agreement, this Agreement shall be treated as a public Consent Order, the

violation of which authorizes the Board or a Board panel, after notice and

opportunity to be heard, to take any action prescribed under § 14-5SB -14(a) of the

. .. Act, including a reprimand, probation, suspension or revocation of the

Respondent’s license; and/or fine.

On September 13, 2021, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto signed a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement with MPRP for an indefinite duration.

Violations of the 2021 Disposition and Participant Rehabilitation Agreements
Non-Compliance with MPRP Conditions

On October 27, 2021, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto had failed to
comply with her Rehabilitation Agreement. On November 5, 2021, in response to a letter from
the Board regarding the MPRP report, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto admitted her violation and provided
a written explanation to the Board of events leading to her failure to comply with her
Rehabilitation Agreement. In her written response, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto indicated that she
understood “the importance of MPRP and [her] participation in this program.”

On December 16, 2021, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto had again
failed to comply with her Rehabilitation Agreement in early December of 2021.
Show Cause Hearing — July 13, 2022

On April 28, 2022, Panel A issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause
based on these alleged violations and conducted a Show Cause hearing on July 13, 2022 to grant

Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto the opportunity to show cause as to why the panel should not issue

sanctions based on her violations of the August 31, 2021 Disposition Agreement. At the hearing,

 
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto admitted her 2021 violations of her Disposition Agreement with the Board
and her Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP. Regarding the concerns raised by Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto’s repeated violations, the State recommended continued enrollment in and monitoring
by MPRP and reiterated the importance of Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s compliance with MPRP’s
recommendations. In addition to conveying remorse for her violations and poor judgment, Ms.
Cook-Pulizzotto provided information to the Panel apropos her ongoing commitment to fulfilling
the terms and conditions of her Agreements and stated her resolve to adhere to all MPRP and
Board requirements and conditions in the future.
Order After Show Cause Hearing: August 3, 2022
Panel A issued an Order After Show Cause Hearing on August 3, 2022, reprimanding
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto and placing her on a new period of probation for a minimum period of two
years. During the probationary period, Panel A again required Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto to remain
enrolled in MPRP, and to continue in a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan. The August 2022 Order also provided that:
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall
constitute a violation of this Order;
In addition, the Order stated:
If Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is a
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative

Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If the disciplinary panel
determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it
is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel

determines that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto has failed to comply with any term or

condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand Ms. Cook-

Pulizzotto, place Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto on probation with appropriate terms and

conditions, or suspend or revoke Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s license to practice

radiography in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more

of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Ms. Cook-

Pulizzotto.

After issuance of the Show Cause Order, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto continued her enrollment
in MPRP and Participant Rehabilitation Agreement.

CURRENT VIOLATION

Violation of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and August 3, 2022 Order

On November 8, 2022, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto had again
engaged in conduct that violated her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. MPRP provided
documentation confirming Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s violation and reported that she had
acknowledged her violation to MPRP. The Board requested a written response to MPRP’s report
from Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto. In an email dated November 13, 2022, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto admitted
to the Board that she had breached her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP, stated
that she was struggling with everyday pressures in her life, and described steps she has taken to
address them. On January 5, 2023, Panel A issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to
Show Cause charging Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto with failure to comply with her Rehabilitation
Agreement, in violation of the August 2022 Order.
Show Cause Hearing: February 8, 2023

On February 8, 2023, Panel A held a show cause hearing. Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto appeared

at the hearing, admitted and apologized for her failure to comply with her Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement, discussed the circumstances that led to her non-compliance, and
acknowledged that there was no excuse for her violation. She provided information on a program
she had been attending since that time and described additional therapeutic steps she was taking
to facilitate a complete recovery.

In response, the State expressed concerns about the undisputed evidence of Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto’s most recent violation in November 2022. The State pointed out that she was once
more before Panel A based on her recurrent violations, that the Panel did not suspend her license
for her violations in 2021 but gave her another opportunity to comply with her Rehabilitation
Agreement by imposing a reprimand and extended probation in the August 2022 Order. The
State argued that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s repeated non-compliance with her Rehabilitation
Agreements warranted the imposition of a short suspension of her license.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Panel A concludes that Ms. Cook-Pulizzoto violated the terms and conditions of the
August 3, 2022 Order by failing to comply with her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement with
MPRP.

SANCTION

Ms, Cook-Pulizzotto’s failure to comply with the August 2022 Order and her pattern of
non-compliance with successive Rehabilitation Agreements despite Panel A’s forbearance and
the previous opportunities granted to her is of serious concern to the Panel. Her violation of her
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement a mere few months after Panel A had given her another
chance in the August 2022 Order, does not, in the Panel’s view, demonstrate a genuine
investment and commitment by Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto to her rehabilitation. Neither the public nor

the radiography profession would be served if the Panel ignores the high risk of a recurrence of
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s conduct. Panel A is not confident that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto fully
recognizes the extent of her difficulties or that she has taken sufficient steps to mitigate stressors
that led to her most recent violation based on the evidence presented by the parties at the show
cause hearing. Nor is the Panel reassured that she can properly adhere to MPRP’s requirements
without gaining more serious insight into her own risk factors. Accordingly, Panel A will impose
a suspension of her radiography license with the goal of allowing her to focus on meaningful
rehabilitation.
ORDER

It is, on an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the radiography license of Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto is SUSPENDED’ for a
minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR. During the period of suspension, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall
comply with all of the following terms and conditions of the suspension: .

(1) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall not:
(a) practice radiography;
(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order After Show Cause
Hearing to hold herself out to the public as a current provider of radiography

services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of her name or provider number by any
health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) perform any other act that requires an active radiography license.
(2) Ms. Cook-Pulizzoto shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

‘If Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be
tolled.
(a) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall continue her Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be entered
into an amended Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan, as determined by MPRP;

(b) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(c) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms
to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board
and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall not withdraw
the release/consent;

(d) Ms, Cook-Pulizzotto shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.c., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s current therapists
and treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning Ms.
Cook-Pulizzotto and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. Ms.
Cook-Pulizzotto shall not withdraw the release/consent;

(e) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions, including the terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall not apply for early termination of suspension;

and it is further

ORDERED that, after a minimum of one year has passed and if Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto has

fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension, Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel requesting termination of

suspension. Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to

discuss her petition for termination. After consideration of the petition, the suspension may be
terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel. The disciplinary panel may grant the
petition to terminate the suspension through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto has fully and satisfactorily complied with all the relevant terms and conditions of the
suspension, and if there are no pending complaints related to a violation of her continuing
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP. In addition, the disciplinary panel may impose
any appropriate terms and conditions on Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s return to the practice of
radiography, including, but not limited to, probation, and/or continuation of her Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that if Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Order, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a material
fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material
fact, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it
is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto, place Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto on probation
with appropriate terms and conditions or suspend or revoke Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s license to
practice radiography in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the
sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto; and it is

further
ORDERED that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or designee signs the
Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this
Order, and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health

Occ. §§ 1-607 and 14-411.1, and Gen. Prov. § 4.333(b).

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, Exe: tive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

 

10
