Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer
License Number: R03620
Case Number: 7723-0076

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5B-13 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R03620, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice radiography, with or
without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5B-01 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

T understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (‘Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation based on my violation of
my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement (“PRA”) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
(“PRP”) with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and the
Disposition Agreement dated August 31, 2021. On August 3, 2022, Panel A issued an
Order After Show Cause Hearing that placed my license on probation for a minimum of
two (2) years and required that I continue to participate in MPRP.

I acknowledge that | again violated my PRA and PRP and the Order after Show
Cause Hearing dated August 3, 2022. On April 24, 2023 Panel A issued a second Order
After Show Cause Hearing that suspended my license for a minimum of one (1) year and
required that I continue to participate in MPRP based on the second instance of failure to
comply with my PRA and PRP.
Mark D, Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I acknowledge that I again violated my PRA and PRP and the April 24, 2023
Order After Show Cause Hearing.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice radiography in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the April
24, 2023 Order After Show Cause Hearing and to avoid prosecution for failing to comply
with the conditions of the Order. I acknowledge that the April 24, 2023 Order After Show
Cause Hearing will remain and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board,
however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply
with the conditions of the April 24, 2023 Order After Show Cause Hearing as long as I do
not have or possess an active radiography license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the April 24, 2023 Order After Show
Cause Hearing. I do not wish to contest these allegations. | understand that by executing
this Letter of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue
from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would
have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses
on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 e¢ seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that | apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, |
understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation
of the profession. 1 further understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that | have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature OnF ile

Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer

NOTARY

STATE OF
CITY/COUNTY O}

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this [Otay of Novém|py2023 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Sara Cook-Pulizzotto,
Radiographer, and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of
this Letter of Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

RHONDA SPRINKEL
Notary Public-Maryland
Harford County

My Commission Expires -
June 03, 2024 Notary P:

 

My commission expires:

P24
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 4

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 174 day of Nov br, I, Christine

A. Farrelly, accept Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer’s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of
her license to practice radiography in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrélly| E ecttive Direc a)

 

Maryland Board of PhySicians
