IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

JENNIFER S. MANCHESTER * STATE BOARD OF
Radiographer
* PHYSICIANS
Respondent
* Case Number: 2218-0070 B

License Number: R04174 *

FCRIII ORI I IOI TI ROR IR TOR TR IR IR ATR AK IARI TI IIA IIIS AR III III KSI IARI IIA ISII IIIA II KSI IS ARIA IBAA I

FINAL ORDER OF REVOCATION OF RADIOGRAPHY LICENSE

On April 9, 2018, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B") of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) notified Jennifer S. Manchester, Radiographer (the
“Respondent’), License Number R04174, of its intent to revoke her license to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland. The Notice informed the Respondent that unless
she requested a hearing in writing within 30 days of the date of mailing of the Notice,
Panel B intended to sign this Final Order, which was enclosed. More than 30 days has
elapsed and the Respondent failed to request a hearing. Therefore, Panel B hereby
revokes the Respondent's license to practice radiography.

The basis for Panel B's action was pursuant to the Maryland Radiation Therapy,
Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act, codified at
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-5B-01 et seq. (the “Act”) (2014 Repl.
Vol. and 2016 Supp.), and the Board’s regulations at Code of Maryland Regulations
(‘COMAR’) § 10.32.02.14(A).

The pertinent provisions of Health Occ. provide:

Health Occ. § 14-5B-14. Denial of license.

(a) | In general—Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this title,

a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may deny a license to any
applicant, reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license, if the applicant or licensee:

(1) Fraudulently or. deceptively obtains or attempts to
obtain a license for the applicant, licensed individual,
or for another;

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the
practice of radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear
medicine technology, or radiology assistance;

(10) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the
practice of radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear
medicine technology, or radiology assistance;

(28) Fails to submit to a criminal history records check
under § 14-308.1 of this title.

Health Occ. § 14-308.1. Criminal history records check through Central
Repository.

(a) In this section, “Central Repository” means the Criminal Justice
Information System Central Repository of the Department of Public
Safety and Correctional Services.

(b) An applicant, a licensee, or a certificate holder shall apply to the
Central Repository for a State and national criminal history records
check.

(c) As part of the application required under subsection (b) of this
section, an individual shall submit to the Central Repository:

(1) Two complete sets of legible fingerprints taken on
forms approved by the Director of the Central
Repository and the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation;

(2) The fee authorized under § 10-221(b)(7) of the
Criminal Procedure Article for access to State criminal
history records; and

(3) | The mandatory processing fee required by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal history
records check.

The pertinent provision of the Board's regulations, COMAR. 10.32.02.14 provides:

.14 Proposed Orders;...
A. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the issuance of a charging document
with a proposed order which will go into effect if the respondent fails
to request a hearing.

FINDINGS OF FACT

 

Panel B finds the following:

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice
radiography in Maryland on April 19, 1995, under License Number R04147. The
Respondent's license is active through April 30, 2019.

2. On or about April 25, 2017, the Respondent initiated the process of applying
for renewal of her radiography license for the 2017 renewal period using the Board's
online renewal application process. When a licensee applies online to renew his or her
license, a notice appears that informs the licensee that the Board may not renew a license
if it has not received the licensee's Criminal History Record Check ("CHRC") information,
which includes the licensee's submission of his or her fingerprints to the Criminal Justice
Information Services ("CJIS") before attempting to complete the renewal application.

3. The Respondent submitted her online application (the "Application") and the
required renewal fee on or about April 25, 2017. The Application states, "Failure to submit
to a [CHRC] may result in disciplinary action." When submitting her online Application,
the Respondent checked a box attesting that she completed her CHRC.

4. By email dated July 21, 2017, Board staff informed the Respondent that the
Board had not received the CHRC she had attested to completing prior to filing the
renewal application. Board staff further informed the Respondent that she had ten
business days to submit the CHRC. The Board did not receive a response from the

Respondent.
5. By letter dated September 18, 2017, Board staff informed the Respondent
that the Board had initiated a preliminary investigation of this matter and required her to
submit documentation to support that she had obtained the CHRC no later than ten
business days after receipt of the letter. The Board did not receive a response from the
Respondent.

6. Panel B's investigation determined that the Respondent failed to submit her
fingerprints to CJIS in compliance with the CHRC process, as set forth in Health Occ. §
14-308.1, and misrepresented to the Board in her Application that she completed her
CHRC.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a) (1), (3), (10),
and (28) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.).

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that the license of Jennifer S. Manchester, Radiographer, is
REVOKED for ONE (1) YEAR; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.

Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014 & 2016 Supp.).

10,2018

 

Date ¢

 
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-14.1(a), the Respondent has the

right to seek judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review
shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and
Order. The cover letter accompanying this final decision and order indicates the date the
decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the
Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter
200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If Ms. Manchester files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should
be served with the court's process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board's counsel at the following
address:

Noreen M. Rubin

Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
