 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

RONNIE TAYLOR, Radiographer * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: R04361 , * Case Number: 2219-0155

* * * k * * * * * * * * *
ORDER OF DEFAULT

On February 20, 2020, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged Ronnie Taylor, Radiographer, with unprofessional or immoral conduct in the
practice of radiography; professional, physical, or mental incompetence; and failure to cooperate
with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel. See Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(3), (4), and (26) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.). On June 5, 2020,
the case was referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for an evidentiary hearing.

On June 12, 2020, OAH mailed a Notice of Scheduling Conference to Mr. Taylor and the
State, at their respective addresses of record, notifying the parties that a telephone scheduling
conference would be held on Jurie 23, 2020, at 9:30 a.m. The telephone conference scheduling
instructions mailed with the Notice stated that the Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) would call
the parties at 9:30 a.m. to commence the conference and listed the phone numbers on file for Mr.
Taylor and the administrative prosecutor. The Notice and instructions mailed to Mr. Taylor were
not returned as undeliverable. On June 23, 2020, at 9:30 a.m., the ALJ made several attempts to
contact Mr. Taylor, but Mr. Taylor did not answer the phone. The ALJ then contaeted the
administrative prosecutor, who answered the phone call, and appeared on behalf of the State. The
ALJ confirmed that there was no request for postponement or other communication from Mr.

Taylor received at the OAH and then held the scheduling conference in Mr. Taylor’s absence.
On June 24, 2020, a scheduling order was issued; notifying the parties of the date, time,
and location of the prehearing conference, among other things. The scheduling order was mailed
to both parties at their addresses of record and the copy mailed to Mr. Taylor was not returned as
undeliverable. The scheduling order informed the parties that the ALJ’s administrative assistant
would contact the parties one week prior to the prehearing conference scheduled for July 28, 2020,
at 9:30 a.m., and confirm whether the prehearing conference would be held in person or via Google
Meet due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

On June 25, 2020, two notices for the prehearing conference were mailed to the parties at
their addresses of record. The notices were not returned to the OAH as undeliverable. The first
notice informed the parties that the prehearing conference would be held in person at the OAH in
Hunt Valley, Maryland. The second notice stated that the prehearing conference would take place
via Google Meet and provided the procedures and guidelines for participating in the video
conference. Both notices instructed the parties to prepare and submit a prehearing statement no
later than 15 calendar days prior to the prehearing conference. Finally, the notices informed the
parties that the failure to attend the July 28, 2020 prehearing conference could result in a decision
against the party for failing to appear.

On July 10, 2020, the ALJ’s administrative assistant sent an email to the parties informing
them that the July 28, 2020 prehearing conference would be conducted by Google Meet, and that
the parties did not have to appear in person. Neither email was returned as undeliverable.

On July 28, 2020, at 9:30 a.m., the ALJ initiated the Google Meet video platform call to
begin the prehearing conference. Mr. Taylor did not appear for the video conference or in person
at the OAH, and no one appeared on his behalf. The administrative prosecutor appeared via

Google Meet on behalf of the State. The ALJ confirmed that Mr. Taylor had not requested a
postponement of the prehearing conference and that Mr, Taylor had not submitted a prehearing
statement, as instructed. After waiting fifteen minutes for Mr. Taylor to appear, and after trying
to reach Mr. Taylor by telephone without success, the ALJ proceeded to hold the prehearing
conference in Mr. Taylor’s absence. The State moved for-a default judgment against Mr. Taylor.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “[i]f, after receiving proper notice, a party fails to attend
or participate in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the judge may
proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated by the
agency, issue a final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.” COMAR
28.02.01.23A.

On July 30, 2020, the ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order. The ALJ found that Mr.
Taylor had proper notice of the July 28, 2020 prehearing confercnce and that he failed to appear
or participate in the prehearing conference. The ALJ proposed that the Panel find Mr. Taylor in
default, adopt as findings of fact the statements set out in the allegations of fact section of the
charges, conclude as a matter of law that Mr. Taylor violated Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(3), (4),
and (26) in the manner set forth in the charges, and revoke his license to practice as a Radiographer.

The ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Mr. Taylor, the administrative
prosecutor, and the Board at the parties’ respective addresses of record. The Proposed Default
Order notified the parties that they may file written exceptions to the proposed order but must do
so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed Default Order. The Proposed Default Order stated
that any exceptions and request for a hearing must be sent to the Board with attention to the Board’s
Executive Director. Neither party filed exceptions. On September 9, 2020, this case came before

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Board for final disposition.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel A concludes that Mr. Taylor has defaulted, the following findings of fact
are adopted from the allegations of fact set forth in the February 20, 2020 Charges Under the
Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology
Assistance Act and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence:

Mr. Taylor was initially licensed to practice radiography in Maryland on or about October
12, 1995, under License Number R04361. Mr. Taylor continuously renewed his license but did
not renew his license during the most recent renewal cycle. Therefore, his license expired on or
about April 30, 2019!

On or about December 21, 2018, the Board received a complaint from a health care staffing
agency (the “Agency”)* that reported that Mr. Taylor had tested positive for an illicit substance
during a pre-employment urine drug screen. The Board initiated an investigation into the
complaint. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained Mr. Taylor’s personnel file from an
orthopedic practice in Silver Spring, Maryland (the “Practice”), which was Mr. Taylor’s only
employer in the previous five years. Mr. Taylor’s personnel file showed, in relevant part, that the
Practice had terminated Mr. Taylor’s employment on or about July 17, 2018. A notice in Mr.
Taylor’s personnel file revealed that the cause for termination was “misconduct in connection with

. work.” The Practice’s personnel file for Mr. Taylor included multiple written reports of
unprofessional conduct involving Mr, Taylor and directed toward other staff members and patients

of the Practice. These incidents included but were not limited to the following:

' Pursuant to section [4-403 of the Health Occupations Article, the license of an individual regulated by the Board
may not “lapse by operation of law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” The
Board’s investigation began prior to the expiration of Mr. Taylor’s license. Therefore, by operation of law, Mr.
Taylor’s license was not permitted to expire during these proceedings.

? To maintain confidentiality, the names of all witnesses, facilities, employees, and patients will not be used in this
document.
 

On or about August 19, 2014, a physician (“Physician A”) approached Mr,
Taylor and asked about the status of an x-ray. Mr. Taylor “got up into
[Physician A’s] face and yelled at him, ‘I just sent that to you.” The
Physician was “very upset” and reported to the Office Manager that he had
never been spoken to in that way by an employee. Physician A said that ifhe
had originally hired Mr. Taylor, he would have fired Mr. Taylor on-the-spot.

On or about April 24, 2018, a pharmaceutical representative was helping to
set up a catered lunch for the Practice’s staff. Mr. Taylor entered the room
and began to take the food. The representative asked that he wait until all of
the food had been set up for staff. Mr. Taylor then “got... into her face,
yelling ‘this is my lunchtime and I will take it when I want.’” Mr. Taylor
moved toward the representative so that she was against the refrigerator. The
representative was “upset and shaken.”

On or about May 14, 2018, a patient complained that Mr. Taylor never
introduced himself and then become “irate” and “argumentative” when the
patient asked about sanitizing the x-ray table mat. The patient said she did
not want to return to the practice to receive treatment.

On or about June 6, 2018, a patient asked Mr. Taylor what his name was, to
which he responded, “Don’t worry about my name,” and “I don’t like your
attitude, you will be waiting a while.” The patient waited “in paper shorts”

for over 90 minutes while Mr. Taylor took back other patients who had just
arrived for an x-ray.

On or about June 7, 2018, a physician (“Physician B”) made a joke to Mr.
Taylor about the amount of food on his plate. Mr, Taylor “got very angry and
stepped up into [the physician’s] face and yelled at him, ‘Mind your own
business. What I eat is none of your business.’” Physician B wanted to fire
Mr. Taylor on-the-spot but deferred to the Office Manager, who convinced
Mr. Taylor to apologize.

 

As part of its investigation, Board staff interviewed several staff members at the Practice,

Both Physician A and Physician B confirmed and reiterated Mr. Taylor’s unprofessional conduct

toward them as described in Mr. Taylor’s personnel file (see J] Sa and Se, above), The other

interviews revealed the following, among other things:

f,

Physician C explained during his interview that he began working with Mr.
Taylor around 2007 when Physician C joined the practice where Mr. Taylor
was already working. Physician C said that he noticed that Mr. Taylor
become angrier when that practice merged with another in mid-2014, and Mr.
Taylor was the only x-ray technician with an increased patient load. Over

 

 
time, according to Physician C, he noticed that Mr. Taylor was becoming “so
cranky and just not the same happy Ronnie.” Physician C, among others,
believed in mid-2018 that, because of his worsening attitude and
unprofessionalism, it was best for Mr. Taylor to look for other employment
outside of the Practice.

g. The Office Manager stated during her interview that Mr. Taylor “started
losing his patience” when the two practices merged in 2014, and that he was
“not able to control what was coming out of his mouth.” The Office Manager
said that on one occasion, she was in the kitchen area with other staff members
working on an assignment, and Mr. Taylor came in and raised his voice at the
Office Manager in front of the other staff members, complaining about his
patient load. By mid-2018 and after several outbursts with other staff, the
Office Manager and Physician C told Mr. Taylor that the Practice was “no
longer a healthy place for [Mr. Taylor] to be.”

As part of its investigation, the Board obtained Mr. Taylor’s personnel file from the
Agency. The personnel file included Mr. Taylor’s October 15, 2018 application for the Agency
to find placement for Mr. Taylor as a Diagnostic Imaging Technologist. The file also included a
report that on or about November 30, 2018, Mr. Taylor tested positive for an illicit substance
during a pre-employment drug screen, The report noted that Mr. Taylor was notified and told to
contact the Medical Review Officer to discuss confirmation testing. On or about December 12,
2018, the Agency tried to contact Mr. Taylor to follow-up about confirmation testing. According
to the report, Mr. Taylor did not respond to the Agency, nor did he submit the necessary paperwork
and payment for the confirmation testing. Asa result, the Agency never placed him in a position.

On or about July 9, 2019, the Board issued a subpoena to Mr. Taylor for him to appear at
the Board on July 23, 2019, for an interview with Board staff. Mr. Taylor did not appear for the
July 23, 2019 interview.

On or about July 24, 2019, the Board issued a subpoena to Mr. Taylor for him to appear at
the Board on July 29, 2019, for an interview with Board staff. The cover letter to the subpoena

also warned Mr. Taylor that failing to appear “could be construed as a failure to cooperate with

the Board’s investigation.” Mr. Taylor did not appear for the July 29, 2019 interview.
By letter dated August 29, 2019, the Board directed Mr. Taylor to appear at a Board-
approved program on September 12, 2019, for an intake evaluation and to schedule a full
examination. The Board’s letter further advised Mr. Taylor that his failure or refusal to submit to
an evaluation would, under Health Oce. § 14-402(c), be prima facie evidence of his inability to
practice competently. Mr. Taylor did not appear for the September 12, 2019 evaluation.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A finds Mr. Taylor in default based upon his failure to appear at the OAH for the
prehearing conference scheduled for July 28, 2020, See State Gov’t § 10-210(4). Based upon the
foregoing findings of fact, Panel A concludes that Mr. Taylor is guilty of unprofessional conduct
in the practice of radiography, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(3); is professionally,
physically or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(4); and failed to
cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation
of Health Occ, § 14-5B-14(a)(26).

SANCTION
Panel A adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ, which is to revoke Mr. Taylor’s
license to practice as a radiographer.
ORDER
It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby
ORDERED that Ronnie Taylor’s license to practice radiography in Maryland (License

No. R04361) is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and

Gen, Prov. § 4-333(b)(6). Signature on File

(0/07/2020
Date Christine A. Farrelly, BxedutiV utive fuiive Ditector/)
Maryland Board of Physicians

 
 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-14.1, Mr. Taylor has the right to seek
judicial review of this Order of Default. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within thirty
(30) days from the date of mailing of this Order of Default. The cover letter accompanying this
Order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made as
provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title

7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If Mr. Taylor files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served

with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address;

Stacey Darin

Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
