Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer

Damean W.E.Freas., D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer
License Number: RO8590
Case Number: 7723-0003

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5B-13 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R08950, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of radiography in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology
Assistance Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.§ 15-SB-01 et seg. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation on my practice, based on a
Mandated 10-Day Report which stated my employment was terminated for poor
performance issues. On May 9, 2022, Panel B issued charges. alleging that I was
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; and guility of failing to meet
apppropriate starandards of the delivery of quality radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear
medicine technology, or radiology assistance care performed in any outpatient surgical
facility, office, hospital or related insitutation, or any other location in this State[.], in
violation of Health Occ.§ 14-5B-14(a)(4) and (18). As a resolution to the charges, I
entered into a Consent Order with Panel B on July 21, 2022 that concluded, as a matter of
law, that I violated the disciplinary grounds alleged, Health Occ.§ 15-5B-14(a)(4) and
(18). The Consent Order suspended my license to practice radiography in the State of
Maryland until I successfully complied with certain terms and conditions. These terms
Damean W.E. Freas, D. 0, Chair, and Members of Diseplnary Panel B
RE: .. Sanjay. Sankhe, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

and conditions required that I enroll in and comply with the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and required that I take and successfully complete
courses in general radiography, anatomy and physiology and professional _ ethics.
Additionally, the terms and conditions of the Consent Order required that in order for the
suspension of my radiography license to be terminated in the State of Maryland, MPRP
had to notify the Board that I was safe to return to the practice of radiography along with
and in agreement with Panel B and after I successfully completed the courses in general
radiography, anatomy and physiology, and professional ethics. A copy of the Consent
Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1:

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the
Consent Order. I acknowledge that the Consent Order will remain and will continue to be
a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrendet, I
will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Consent Order as long as Ido
not have or possess an active radiography license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender Tam
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and. all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl.
Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrénder, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I
understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation
of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked,
Department of the Environment. In both cases, the Respondent attempted to “hide the fact
that he had created an error” and failed to accept responsibility.

14. The first incident involved imaging the wrong body part of a patient, which
the Respondent then attempted cover up by attempting to delete the mistaken images from
the computer records system. The Respondent also failed to report either incident to a
supervisor, as required.

15. In the first case, the Respondent’s error and his attempt to cover it up were
later uncovered by routine QA audit, and the Respondent was counseled and disciplined.

16. The second incident involved the Respondent x-raying the wrong patient.
This time, the Respondent lied about his error to the Supervising Tech in order to hide it.
However, the Supervising Tech suspected a misadministration, and immediately confirmed
the error himself.

17. Following the second incident, the Respondent was terminated due to
“unsafe patient practices.”

Respondent’s tenure as a CT Technologist at the Center (2021)

18. Contrary to the Respondent’s description of a single incident resulting in his
termination from the Center, personnel records obtained from the Center demonstrate that
the Respondent consistently failed to perform his role as required throughout the several
weeks he was employed there.

19. For example, in response the Respondent’s unemployment compensation

claim, made after his termination, the Center representative listed the reason for his
discharge as “due to repeated errors and unsatisfactory performance,” and cited the

following specific incidents:

a.

March 18, 2021 -- “[Respondent] made an error in entering a patient’s
medical history.”
. March 24, 2021 -- “Received a patient complaint about [Respondent] telling

the patient she was there for a different procedure than she was scheduled
for.” According to records, the Respondent repeatedly insisted to a patient
that she was to receive a chest CT, when in reality, she was to receive a pelvis

CT scan.

. March 29, 2021 ~ “[Respondent] poorly scanned a patient resulting in 6

errors.” According to records, the Respondent was attempting to scan a
temporal bone, but poorly positioned the patient’s head, performed the scan
at an incorrect angle, took 49 images before hitting the proper anatomy, and
took 39 images off-target.

March 31, 2021 — “[Respondent] poorly scanned a patient resulting in 4
errors,”

April 7, 2021 (“final incident”) — “[Respondent] did not follow policies and
procedures while scanning a patient. He was prepped by the lead technologist
prior to the scan, he called for guidance several times during the scan, and it

was ultimately not performed correctly.”
20. The Respondent’s personnel file from the Center is replete with
documentation of the Respondent’s clinical errors, remedial counseling, and failures to
make necessary efforts to improve his performance.

21. +A final note from the Center Supervisor, written April 8, 2021, sums up the |
Respondent’s tenure at the Center:

At this point, we are not making any progress with Sanjay. He does not know

basic cross-sectional anatomy. He cannot pick out structures like a

gallbladder or arch of the aorta. ... Sanjay had 6 dedicated weeks of training

to learn the scanner. We are now in week 8. He over scans (over radiates)

patients because he does not know anatomy. I have meet (sic) with him

multiple times to address issues. We cannot let him continue in the clinical

setting. He is not making progress and patient care is suffering.

22. Of note, the Respondent’s personnel records also show that the Respondent

himself was aware of his inadequate abilities. On self-evaluation form he was asked to

 

complete, the Respondent judged that he was only able to satisfactorily and independently

 

perform 8 out of 27 types of clinical examinations listed. He judged himself as needing
improvement in:

a. Evaluating exam order;

b. Technologist safety/IV skills;

c. Equipment warm up and QA; and

d. Most areas of post processing.

23. Sworn interviews with the Center Supervisor as well as the Respondent’s

immediate supervisor (the “Immediate Supervisor”) confirmed the personnel records’
documentation of the Respondent’s failures to meet requirements or substantially improve

during his tenure at the Center, despite their best efforts to train him.
The Respondent’s Tenure as a CT Technologist at the Baltimore County Hospital
(2021)

24. Following his termination from the Center, the Respondent gained
employment at a hospital in Baltimore County (the “Baltimore County Hospital”), where
he worked as a CT Technologist from approximately May 17, 2021 until June 24, 2021,
when he was terminated due to unsatisfactory performance.

25. According to records obtained from the Baltimore County Hospital, the
Respondent was terminated because he was unable to meet

the minimal performance expectations of a CT technologist within the

[imaging] department. Sanjay has not demonstrated that his skillset would

allow him to work independently as a technologist in CT. We have worked

with Sanjay to give him an extended amount of training, however, there has

(sic) been no improvements. Some of the performance issues that have been

raised with Sanjay, include instances that could result in patient safety issues.

26. The records also demonstrate that the Respondent was counseled.

27. According to the Imaging and Operations Manager at the Baltimore County
Hospital, who supervised the Respondent (the “Manager”), the Respondent lacked
knowledge of “basic anatomy that a new graduate would know.” Therefore, the “pertinent
anatomy was missing a lot of times” on the scans produced by the Respondent.

28. The Manager also stated the Respondent lacked a “basic understanding of
CT and how a CT scanner works” and was unable to perform his duties independently.

29. The Manager also shared her concern regarding an incident in which the

Respondent mistakenly caused a patient IV line to become. dislodged, and then attempted
to hide his mistake by covering the affected area with a bedsheet, and later denying
responsibility.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the forgoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent: is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(4); and failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
quality radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear medicine technology, or radiologist
assistance care performed in any outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital or related
institution, or any other location in this State, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5B-

14(a)(18).

ORDER
It is, thus, by Disciplinary Panel B of the Board, hereby:
ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED); and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice radiography is
SUSPENDED* until the Respondent has successfully cornplied with the following
conditions:
(1) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment;

3 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension
and any conditions will be tolled.
(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with
MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall
fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent
shall not withdraw his/her release/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a
violation of this Consent Order;

(2) During the suspension, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice radiography;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of
radiography services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;
(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) perform any other act that requires an active radiography license; and it is further

10
(3) The Respondent shail take and successfully complete courses in: (i) general
radiography, (ii) anatomy and physiology, and (iii) professional ethics.
The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in, and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the courses before the courses begin;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel
that the Respondent has successfully completed the courses;

(c) the courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal;

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the courses; and

(4) After the Respondent has successfully completed the courses required under
suspension condition (3), if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that the Respondent is
safe to return to the practice of radiography, the Respondent may submit a written
petition to Panel B to terminate the suspension of the Respondent's license. The
Respondent may be required to appear before Panel B to discuss his petition for
termination. If panel B determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the
practice of radiography, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the Panel
B, and Panel B may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on the
Respondent's return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation and continuation
of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If Panel B determines that it is not safe for
the Respondent to return to the practice of radiography, the suspension shall be
continued through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by
the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and
conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that, upon the termination of suspension, the Respondent shall not
practice CT (computed tomography) technology for a minimum period of FIVE
YEARS. The following terms apply:

a. On every January 31 thereafter, if the Respondent holds a Maryland
radiography license, the Respondent shall provide the Board with an
affidavit verifying that the Respondent has not practiced CT technology in
the past year;

b. If the Respondent fails to provide the required annual verification of
compliance with this condition:

il
1, There is a presumption that the Respondent has violated this condition;
and

2. The alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of

a Show Cause Hearing.

c. After a minimum period of FIVE YEARS from the termination of the
suspension, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the Board
showing good cause as to why he should be permitted to resume the practice
of CT technology. In its discretion, after consideration of the petition, the
petition may be granted or denied through an order of a Board disciplinary
panel; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of the suspension conditions constitutes a violation of
this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel hearing the matter determines there is a
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law

Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before

a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as

12
to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary
panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice
radiography in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the
sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ I-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrélly, ecutive Directgt |
Maryland State Board of Physicians \/

 

13
CONSENT.

I, Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer, acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel
before signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

] assert that 1 am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights
to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

Signature On File

4 iq jae _

Date Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer

14
Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. T acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly, yours,

Signature On File
Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer
NOTARY

STATE OF _/ bony rol

city/county or Bollmere

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this | 4th day of 2022,
before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared
Sanjay Sankhe, and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order
was his voluntary act and deed. .

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

    

q DANELA SA ‘
ett pata IGA ‘
altimore Ci ;
My Commission espe

      

Commission expires:

15
Damean W.E. Freas, D:O., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 4

NOTARY

STATE OF U's 9f a8

CITY/COUNTY OF Ea Sc Eek

ay
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this72.¢ day of Rv Sus , 2022 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Sanjay Sankhe,
Radiographer., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing
of this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

  

Notary Public

My commission expires: 0S - 3-2 023 ota B ROO, ”,

% a
hee,
:

3
&

rl *o,
ar NOTARY“
Foye Gtbuc
: 47087745
2 MYCOMMIssiON
Bt oe PIRES ;
By, O8B1/9 :
3B 1/2023 “Ss
Nyy “Peoaaeoo™ w
ALT oF we
epegeg yeas

Hae

4,
eg ‘4
Damean W.E. Freas, D/O., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B

RE: Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer
Letter of Surrender
Page 5 ,
ACCEPTANCE

a Ly
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this TH tay ot ples I, Christine

A. Farrelly, accept Sanjay Sankhe, Raidographer’s, PUBLIC SURRENDER of his
license to practice radiography in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly/Exechitive Director (/

 

Maryland Board of Physici
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

SANJAY SANKHE, RADIOGRAPHER * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: R08590 * Case Number: 2221-0134 B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

On May 9, 2022, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged SANJAY SANKHE, Radiographer (the
“Respondent”), License Number R08590, under the Maryland Radiation Therapy,
Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-5B-01 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and
2020 Supp).

Panel B charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of Health
Occ. § 14-5B-14:

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of §14-405 of this title, a disciplinary panel,
on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the disciplinary panel,
may deny a license to any applicant, reprimand any licensee, place any
licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license, if the applicant or
licensee:

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; [and]

(18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality
radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear medicine technology,
or radiology assistance care performed in any outpatient
surgical facility, office, hospital or related institution, or any
other location in this State[.]
On June 22, 2022, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this
’ DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B makes the following findings of fact:

L BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on September 6, 2007, under License Number R08590. The
Respondent’s license is currently active and scheduled to expire on April 30, 2023. The
Respondent also holds a radiologic technologist license in Virginia.

2. Until approximately April 2021, the Respondent practiced radiography at
various medical imaging centers in Maryland, most recently at an outpatient medical
imaging center in Baltimore County, Maryland (the “Center”).!

I. THE COMPLAINT

3. On or about April 13, 2021, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report?

(the “Complaint”) from the management of the Center stating that the Respondent had been

terminated “for performance” effective April 9, 2021.

' For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in
this case are not disclosed in this document.

? See Health Occ. § 14-5B-15(a) “... employers shall [within 10 days] file with the Board a report that the
hospital, related institution, alternative health system, or employer limited, reduced, otherwise changed, or

2
II. BOARD INVESTIGATION

4. Based on the Complaint, the Board initiated an investigation under case
number 2221-0134 B.

5. As part of its investigation, the Board’s Investigator requested a written
response to the Complaint from the Respondent. The Investigator also obtained relevant
medical and personnel records from the Respondent’s previous workplaces and conducted
interviews with relevant witnesses including the Respondent’s previous supervisors,
colleagues, and the Respondent himself.

Respondent’s Written Response

6. According to the Respondent’s written response to the Complaint, the
Respondent has worked for approximately 14 years as a radiographer in Maryland, and
started his employment at the Center in February 2021 as a computerized tomography (CT)
Technician. This role was outside the Respondent’s previous professional experience as an
x-ray (radiograph) technician, and he was trying to “develop new skills” on this “entirely
new modality.”

7, The Respondent blamed his termination on an incident that occurred just
before his separation, when he attempted to perform a CT angiogram on a patient using
intravenous (IV) contrast solution. Regarding this procedure, the Respondent
acknowledged being a “novice” and failed to successfully mark the iliac artery with

contrast, which led to an inconclusive CT scan because of the Respondent’s failure to

terminated any licensee for any reason that might be grounds for disciplinary action under § 14-SB-14 of
this subtitle.”
highlight the artery properly. The Respondent stated that after he reported the event to his
supervisor (the “Center Supervisor”), he was terminated.

8. The Respondent denied that the incident indicates that he is professionally
incompetent, citing his “successful career thus far.”

Respondent’s Tenure as a Radiographer at the Montgomery County Hospital (2015-
2017)

9. The Board obtained records from the Respondent’s previous employers,
including a hospital in Montgomery County (the “Montgomery County Hospital”), where
the Respondent work as a PRN imaging technologist performing radiographs from
approximately September 2015 until September 2017.

10. The records reveal that the Respondent’s initial 90 probation period was
extended due to an evaluation indicating that he was failing to meet performance standards
in the category of “general job knowledge” after 90 days. Specifically, his supervisor noted
that the Respondent needed “to avoid repeats, ... familiarize himself with all the diagnostic
equipment in the department, [and] learn department workflow.”

ll. The Board Investigator conducted a sworn interview with the director of
medical imaging at the Montgomery County Hospital (the “Director”) and the
Respondent’s immediate supervisor (the “Supervising Tech”).

12. The Director stated that from the beginning, the Respondent’s images were
“very poor.” The Director also noted that the Respondent “didn’t know anatomy at all.”

13. The records and interviews also show that the Respondent was responsible

for two x-ray misadministrations, which required reports to be filed with the Maryland

4
