IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

KRISTA CHASTAIN, Radiographer * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: R09509 * Case Number: 2222-0081 B

* * * x x * x * * x * x *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE RADIOGRAPHY

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of KRISTA CHASTAIN,
Radiographer (the “Respondent”), License Number R09509, to practice radiography in
the State of Maryland.

Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c) (2021 Repl. Vol.), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action.

I. BACKGROUND

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the

following facts are true: !

' The statements regarding Panel B’s investigative findings are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily
represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against
the Respondent in connection with this matter.

 

 

 
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland. The Respondent originally was licensed to practice
radiography in Maryland on November 20, 2009, under License Number R09509. The
Respondent’s license is current through April 30, 2023.

2. From November 22, 2016 until November 10, 202], the Respondent was
employed as a radiographer by a health care facility located in Prince George’s County,
Maryland (“Health Care Facility A”). From December 16, 2021 until January 23, 2022,
the Respondent was employed as a radiographer by a health care facility located in Anne
Arundel County, Maryland (“Health Care Facility B”), The Respondent was terminated
by Health Care Facility B for “excessive tardiness and inconsistent performance issues.”

3. On November 12, 2021, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
(the “Report”) that Health Care Facility A terminated the Respondent from her job as a
radiographer “due to unprofessional conduct.” After receiving this Report, the Board
opened an investigation of the Respondent.

Il. THE BOARD INVESTIGATION

4. As part of its investigation, the Board subpoenaed the Respondent’s human
resources file from Health Care Facility A and Health Care Facility B, obtained medical
records of the Respondent from three of her health care providers, interviewed seven (7)

staff members of the Respondent from Health Care Facility A, interviewed the Managing

 

 

 
Director of Health Care Facility B, and obtained probation records from the Maryland
Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services.”

a. Human Resources File of Health Care Facility A

5. On October 8, 2021, an anonymous complaint was filed against the

 

Respondent on Health Care Facility A’s tip line. The complaint alleged in part:
e The Respondent “has openly admitted to ‘snorting’ the medication she is
prescribed” for a medical condition;
e The Respondent “has also admitted to being on probation for assault,
smoking marijuana, and consuming ‘something laced with Fentanyl”;
e The Respondent “regularly ‘nods off? during work hours”;
e The Respondent “every day...will go to her vehicle, and fall asleep for

most of the work day”;

 

e The Respondent “regularly leaves the building for a ‘smoke break,” and i
returns hours later, with red eyes”;

e The Respondent is “typically dazed when she returns from smoke breaks”;
and

e The Respondent’s “behavior presents a risk to patient safety ...[and] can

easily result in patients receiving improper care.”

 

6. Thereafter, management of Health Care Facility A conducted an internal .

investigation of the Respondent.

? Probation records document that the Respondent submitted “fraudulent” paperwork that she was attending
treatment on certain dates when in fact she had not “by whiting out dates from a previous letter (march) and added
august and September [2021] to dates to show as if she has been compliant.”
7.

On October 20, 2021, Health Care Facility A placed the Respondent on

administrative leave.

8.

On November 10, 2021, Health Care Facility A terminated the Respondent

from her employment.

9.

b. Board Interviews with Employees of Health Care Facility A

Board staff interviewed seven (7) employees of Health Care Facility A as

part of its investigation. The interviewees stated in part:

The Respondent disclosed that she would “smoke marijuana” at Health
Care Facility A during lunch breaks, and came to work “reeking of weed”;
The Respondent reported to her co-workers that she used illegal drugs,
including cocaine and fentanyl;

The Respondent spoke freely about her medical conditions at Health Care
Facility A: “[S]he openly told me that she had some mental health issues
and was using drugs while at work and...she would tell me about her
personal life as well while not a work”;

The Respondent “would come into work and she would visibly be under the
influence”;

In June, 2021, there was a “drastic change” in the Respondent’s behavior,
in that “she would come to work and she would just be sweating...she
would disappear. She would talk a lot to herself and then she would walk

around and just like be cursing, like the ‘B’ word, the ‘F’ word”;

 

 
e The Respondent “literally...would walk sideways, like her — like she
couldn’t even stand or like her balance was off, I mean, or she was just
stumbling”;

e In Fall, 2021, the Respondent was observed to “fall asleep sitting up,”

 

“sometimes she would slur,” and “she would just stare at the wall and just
have like a blank stare, like looking right through you”;

e The Respondent exhibited a “change in behavior...over the last year that
she was employed with the company, she would be dozing off, like sitting
there waiting for patients looking at her phone and bobbing her head dozing
off. A lot of her behaviors are very erratic, falling asleep at work and
sweating and kind of just like very like confused and it was, just very clear

that this wasn’t typical behavior”;

 

¢ The Respondent “would disappear for hours at a time. We’d be looking for °
her. She wouldn’t answer her phone. She would leave for lunch — we get 30
minutes for lunch, we’d be looking for her an hour later. When she came
back from lunch, she’d be kind of dazed and then sometimes start dozing
off in a chair”;

¢ The Respondent used profanity and racist language at Health Care Facility

 

A; e
e The Respondent sent threatening text messages to co-workers;

¢ The Respondent lit hairspray on fire at Health Care Facility A;
e Co-workers were concerned for their own safety and the safety of the
patients because of the Respondent’s erratic behavior; and
e In September, 2021, the Respondent was described as being spacey, losing
paperwork, having memory issues, and performing incorrect exams on
patients.
c. Board Interview with Managing Director of Health Care Facility B
10. Board staff interviewed the Managing Director of Health Care Facility B at
which the Respondent was employed. The Managing Director in part stated:
e The Respondent was often tardy, did not come to work when scheduled, or
would leave early;
e The Respondent broke a part on the radiography machine with an
approximate damage value of $2,500.00; and
e The Respondent used profanity towards employees of Health Care Facility
B.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based upon the foregoing, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that the public
health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol.) and Md. Code Regs. (““COMAR”)

10.32.02.08B(7)(a).
ORDER

It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:

 

 
ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02,08B(7)(a), the Respondent's license to
practice radiography in the State of Maryland is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED;
and it is further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with COMAR
10.32.02.05B(7) on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, March 23,
2022, at 10:00 a.m. before Panel B at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation hearing before Panel B,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request within ten (10)
days an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of this Order for Summary Suspension shal] be filed with
the Board in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2021 Repl. Vol.); and it is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Disciplinary Panel B, and as such, is a
PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and

Gen. Provisions § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

o3/o¢/20a.3
Date Christine A. Farrélly. |

Executive Director . (/
Maryland State Board of Physicians
