IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

DANIEL SZUBA, Radiographer * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: R09840 * Case Number: 2221-0063 A
* * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF RADIOGRAPHER’S LICENSE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of DANIEL SZUBA,
Radiographer (the “Respondent”), License Number R09840, to practice radiography in
the State of Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t (“State Gov’t”) § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code
Regs. (“COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:!

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the asserted facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
L BACKGROUND

1. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice radiography in
Maryland on September 9, 2010, under License Number R09840. The Respondent’s
license is scheduled to expire on April 30, 2021.

2. From 2013 until September 3, 2020, the Respondent was employed as a
radiographer at a health care facility (the “Facility”? that operates several locations in
Maryland.

3. The Respondent is not currently employed.

I. THE COMPLAINT

4. On September 24, 2020, the Board received an anonymous complaint
regarding the Respondent (the “Complaint”), dated September 20, 2020, from an individual
(the “Complainant”) who worked at the Facility. The Complainant stated that he/she
witnessed the Respondent “under the influence” at work several weeks prior and called
security due to his erratic and concerning behavior. The Complainant stated that he/she
believed the Respondent was terminated from the Facility and the Complainant had
“significant concerns that he will seek employment elsewhere and exhibit the same

behavior, possibly endangering patients and staff.”

? To maintain confidentiality, the names of individuals and health care facilities will not be identified in
this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of the individuals and health care facilities
referenced herein by contacting the administrative prosecutor.
Ill. BOARD INVESTIGATION
5. As part of the Board’s investigation, Board investigators subpoenaed the
Respondent’s records from the Facility, conducted under-oath interviews of Facility
employees, reviewed surveillance footage of the Respondent and obtained the
Respondent’s medical records. Board investigators also notified the Respondent of its
investigation of his termination from the Facility, requested a written response and
conducted an under-oath interview of the Respondent.
The Respondent’s Personnel File
6. On or around November 25, 2020, Board investigators subpoenaed and
subsequently received the Respondent’s human resources/personnel file from the Facility
(the “Personnel File”). The Personnel File revealed the following:
a. On August 18, 2020, employees at the Facility found the Respondent
to “not appear to be himself” and observed that the Respondent had
“glassy eyes,” “slurred speech” and a “lack of concentration.”
b. The Respondent was also captured on the Facility security camera
falling over, stumbling and bumping into a wall (the “Facility

Surveillance Video”) on the Mother Baby Unit.

c. On August 18, 2020, the Respondent was sent for a Fitness for Duty
Evaluation and underwent testing. ?

7. On or around December 9, 2020, Board investigators received additional
information from the Facility that the Respondent’s employment at the Facility was

terminated on or around September 3, 2020, based on the results of the testing.

3 The Board reviewed the testing results when evaluating this case and the results were known to the
Panel at the time the Panel voted to summarily suspend the Respondent’s radiography license.
8. On or about December 14, 2020, Board investigators subpoenaed and
subsequently reviewed the Facility Surveillance Video, which confirmed that the
Respondent stumbled and bumped into a wall while on duty.

Interviews

9. Board investigators conducted under-oath interviews of three Facility
employees who interacted with the Respondent on August 18, 2020.

10. On January 7, 2021, Board investigators conduced an under-oath interview
of a nurse at the Facility (the “Nurse”) who worked closely with the Respondent since
2008.

11. The Nurse stated that on the morming of August 18, 2020, the Respondent
was treating a patient and another physician observed that the Respondent was not paying
attention. The Nurse stated that she observed the Respondent as the day progressed and
began to have concerns about the Respondent’s sobriety.

12. The Nurse told Board investigators that around 1:00 p.m., the Respondent
entered the break room and asked to speak to a technician at the Facility (the “Technician”).
Shortly thereafter, the Technician’ came to get her and upon seeing the Respondent the

Nurse thought the Respondent “didn’t quite look right.”

* The Board conducted an under-oath interview with the Technician who stated that when she met with
the Respondent outside the break room, the Respondent looked “exhausted” and stated to her that he “felt
funny.”
13. The Nurse and the Technician took the Respondent to an area for him to lie
down and talked to him to determine the cause of his condition. The Respondent stated he
had taken allergy/cold medications.

14. While speaking with the Respondent, the Nurse observed that the
Respondent had pale skin, a slumped posture, difficulty keeping his eyes open and speech
that drifted off. The Respondent also “drifted off’ while drinking a soda, called the Nurse
by his girlfriend’s name and referred to his supervisor at the Facility (the “Supervisor”) as
“Babe.”

15. On January 6, 2021, Board investigators conducted an under-oath interview
with the Respondent’s Supervisor.

16. The Supervisor stated that when she interacted with the Respondent, the
Respondent nodded off while she was talking with him, had difficulty conversing with her
and was unsteady on his feet. The Supervisor also stated that the Respondent referred to
her as “Babe” and called the Nurse by his girlfriend’s name.

17. Based on these observations, the Respondent was referred for the Fitness for
Duty Evaluation that led to his termination from the Facility based on the testing results.

Respondent’s Statements to the Board

18. The Respondent provided a written response to the Board, dated December
10, 2020, in which he stated, “I can assure you this is an isolated incident.”

19. On January 29, 2021, Board investigators conducted an under-oath interview

of the Respondent.
20. In this interview, the Respondent made admissions that were contrary to
statements he provided in his written response. For example, the Respondent stated that he
ingested a CDS pill from his neighbor “maybe two times” prior to August, in March or
April. The Respondent further stated that he sought medical treatment in December of
2020 to address his medical condition.®

21. Shortly after the interview concluded, the Respondent sent Board
investigators an email which caused Board investigators to conduct a follow-up interview
of the Respondent. In the Respondent’s follow-up interview, the Respondent further
disclosed that after the Facility terminated his employment, he bought and took CDS “five
to six times” in November and December of 2020, prior to seeking medical treatment.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action pursuant
to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7).

ORDER
IT IS thus, by Panel A of the Board, hereby:
ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Gov’t § 10-

226(c)(2)(2014 Repl. Vol. and 2020 Supp.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the

° To maintain confidentiality, the CDS will not be disclosed in this document however the specific CDS
was known to the Panel at the time the Panel voted to summarily suspend the Respondent’s radiography
Hcense.

6 To maintain confidentiality, the medical condition will not be disclosed in this document however the
Respondent’s medical condition was known to the Panel at the time the Panel voted to summarily
suspend the Respondent’s radiography license.
Respondent’s license to practice radiography in the State of Maryland is hereby
SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a
post-deprivation initial hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday,
March 10, 2021, at 11:15 a.m. at the Board’s offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland, 21215; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031; and it
is further

ORDERED that this is an Order of Panel A, and as such, is a public document. See

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature on File

Maryland State Board of icians

02424 [202]
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Ee ae
