 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

ROBERT B. WARREN * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS

LICENSE NO.: R10165 * CASE NO.: 2218-0141

* * * * * * * * * * & *

ORDER OF SUSPENSION OF RADIOGRAPHER LICENSE
FOR DELINQUENT CHILD SUPPORT

BACKGROUND

 

On or about January 16, 2018, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
received a written request from the Frederick County Office of the Child Support Enforcement
Administration of the Maryland Department of Human Resources (the “Administration”) to
suspend the Radiographer license held by Robert B. Warren, Radiographer (the “Respondent”),
License No. R10165, for delinquent child support. This action was to be taken by authority of
Md. Code Ann., Fam. Law § 10-119.3 (2012 Repl. Vol.), which provides, in pertinent part:

(e)(2) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, upon
notification by the Administration under this section, a licensing
authority’ shall:

(i) suspend an individual’s license, or

(ii) deny the license of an individual who is an-applicant for a license
from the licensing authority.

* * *

(h) Right to contest identity. — (1) Except as provided in paragraph
(2) of this subsection, prior to the suspension or denial of a license
under subsection (e) of this section, a licensing authority shall send
written notice of the proposed action to the individual whose license
is subject to suspension or denial, including notice of an

ee

! The Maryland State Board of Physicians is a unit within the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene,
Mad. Code Ann., Health-Gen. §§ 2-101 & 2-106(a)(20), and is therefore a “licensing authority” within the meaning
of Md, Code Ann., Fam. Law § 10-119.3(a)(3)@) and ii)(2).

1
 

individual’s right to contest the identity of the individual whose
license or application is to be suspended or denied.

* * *

(i) Appeal; hearing. —(1)(@) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of
this subsection, an individual may appeal a decision of a licensing
authority to suspend or deny the individual’s license in accordance
with Title 10, Subtitle 2 of the State Government Article.

(ii) At a hearing under this paragraph, the issue shall be limited to
whether the Administration has mistaken the identity of the
individual whose license has been suspended or denied.

* * *
(k) Reinstatement of license—Duty of licensing authority. — A
licensing authority shall immediately reinstate any license

suspended, or process: an application for any license denied, under
this section ift

(1) notified by the Administration that the license should be
reinstated; and .
(2) the individual otherwise qualifies for the license. .

On January 25, 2018, the Board sent an unexecuted copy of this Order of Suspension to
the Respondent’s last known address of record with the Board and also to the address on the
request form that the Board received from the Administration. Accompanying the unexecuted
Order of Suspension was a cover letter notifying the Respondent of his right to contest his
identity in writing within thirty days of the date of the letter and notifying the Respondent that if
he did not submit a signed, written appeal to the Board on or before February 26, 2018 the Board
would execute this Order of Suspension as written. The Respondent did not submit a written

contest of identity to the Board by February 26, 2018.

FINDINGS OF FACT

 

1, The Board issued a license to practice Radiography to the Respondent on August

10, 2011. His license is currently active and is scheduled to expire on April 30, 2019.
 

2. On or about January 16, 2018 the Board received a written request from the
Administration, entitled “Request to Suspend or Deny License for Delinquent Child Support”
(the “Request”), which requested that the Board suspend the Radiographer license held by the
Respondent for delinquent child support under the authority of Md. Code Ann., Fam. Law § 10-
119.3. The Request stated that, as of January 1, 2018 the arrearage amount of child support that
the Respondent owed was $7,834.47 in the Administration’s case numbered 660093820.

3. As noted above, Md. Code Ann:, Fam. Law § 10-119.3(e)(2) & (h)(1) requires
that the Board suspend the license of the Respondent upon notification by the Administration and
after sending written notice to the Respondent of the proposed suspension of his license and of
his right “to contest the identity of the individual whose license . . . is to be suspended.”

4. On January 25, 2018, the Board sent an unexecuted copy of this Order of
Suspension to the Respondent’s last known address registered with the Board and the address as
noted oni the Request. Included with the unexecuted Order of Suspension was a letter notifying
the Respondent of his right to contest his identity, in writing to the Board, within thirty days of
the date of the letter; that is, to contest that he was not the Robert B. Warren, Radiographer,
R10165 named by the Administration as the individual whose license should be suspended for
delinquent child support. In addition, the letter also gave Respondent written notice that if he did
not submit to the Board a signed, written appeal on or before February 26, 2018 the Board would
execute this Order of Suspension as written.”

5. The Respondent did not submit a written contest of identity to the Board by
February 26, 2018; nor was the Board notified that the Respondent arranged to pay the arrears in

full.

_
2 The letter also notified the Respondent that he could prevent the suspension of his registration by contacting the
Administration and arranging to pay the arrears in full within 15 days of the date of the letter.
 

6. Having given the Respondent the statutorily required written notice of the Board’s
intent to suspend his license and of his right to contest identity pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Fam.
Law § 10-119.3(h)(1), and having not received a written response or appeal from the
Respondent, the Board is statutorily required to suspend the Respondent’s license, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Fam. Law § 10-1 19.3(0)2).

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Board concludes that, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Fam. Law § 10-119.3(e)(2)@) it ig statutorily required to suspend the Respondent’s
license to practice Radiography until the Board receives notification from the Administration that
the Respondent’s license should be reinstated pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Fam. Law § 10-
119.3(k)(1)-(2), provided that the Respondent is otherwise qualified for a license.

ORDER

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is hereby:

ORDERED that the Radiographer license held by the Respondent, Robert B. Warren,
R10165, is SUSPENDED; and it is further,

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license shall remain suspended until the Board
receives notification from the Child Support Enforcement Administration of the Department of
Human Resources that the Respondent’s license should be reinstated pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Fam. Law § 10-119.3(k)(1)-(2), provided that the Respondent is otherwise qualified for a license,
and it is further,

ORDERED that this is a Final Order of the Maryland State Board of Physicians and, as

such, is a public document and is reportable to any entity to which the Board is obligated by law
 

to report, and is disclosable pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§4-101 through 4-601

(2014).

 

OZ: O18

--
Date Christine A. Farrelly, tee ive Director ,
Maryland State Board of Physt i

 

  

NOTICE OF APPEAL RIGHTS

NOTICE OF APPEAL NA
The Respondent has a right to appeal this Final Order of the Board pursuant to Fam. Law

§ 10-119.3(4), which provides as follows:

(i) Appeal; hearing —(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of
this subsection, an individual may appeal a decision of a licensing
authority to suspend or deny the individual’s license in accordance
- with Title 10, Subtitle 2 of the State Government Article.

(ii) At a hearing under this paragraph, the issue shall be limited to
whether the Administration has mistaken the identity of the
individual whose license has been suspended or denied.
