IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

KELSIE GROVE, Radiographer * STATE BOARD OF

Respondent * PHYSICIANS

License Number: R11742 * Case Number: 2218-0075A

BERR ERR ER KER RRR IER RE RIK RE RAR AE RRR WER EERE REESE ER REAR AE RK EERE EER AEE EKESR ARR EE KE RAED REER HERE

FINAL ORDER OF REVOCATION OF RADIOGRAPHY LICENSE

On December 12, 2017, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State

Board of Physicians (the “Board”) notified Kelsie Grove, Radiographer (the

“Respondent’), License Number R11742, of its INTENT TO REVOKE her license to

practice radiography in the State of Maryland. The Notice informed the Respondent that

unless she requested a hearing in writing within 30 days of the date of mailing of the

Notice, Panel A intended to sign this Final Order, which was enclosed. More than 30

days has elapsed and the Respondent failed to request a hearing. Therefore, the

revocation of the Respondent's license to practice radiography is final.

The basis for Panel A’s action was pursuant to the Maryland Radiation Therapy,

Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act, codified at

Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ. II”) § 14-58-01 ef seq. (the “Act”) (2014

Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.) and the Board’s regulations at Md. Code Regs.

410.32.02.14(A).

The pertinent provisions of Health Occ. Il provide:

Health Occ. ll § 14-5B-14. Denial of license.

(a)

In genera--Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
title, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may deny a license to any
applicant, reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license, if the applicant or licensee:
Health Occ. Il § 14-308.1. Criminal history records check through

(10)

(28)

Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to
obtain a license for the applicant. licensed individual,
or for another;

Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the
practice of radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear
medicine technology, or radiology assistance:

Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the
practice of radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear
medicine technology, or radiology assistance;

Fails to submit to a criminal history records check
under § 14-308.1 of this title.

Central Repository.

(a)

(b)

(c)

In this section. “Central Repository” means the Criminal Justice
Information System Central Repository of the Department of Public

Safety and Correctional Services.

An applicant, a licensee, or a certificate holder shall apply to the
Central Repository for a State and national criminal history records
check.

As part of the application required under subsection (b) of this

section, an individual shall submit to the Central Repository:

(1)

Two complete sets of legible fingerprints taken on
forms approved by the Director of the Central
Repository and the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation:

The fee authorized under § 710-221(b)(7) of the
Criminal Procedure Article for access to State criminal
history records; and

The mandatory processing fee required by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal
history records check.
The pertinent provisions of the Board's regulations, Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.14
provide:

.14 Proposed Orders; ...

A. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the issuance of a charging
document with a proposed order which will go into effect if the
respondent fails to request a hearing.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following:

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to
practice radiography in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to
practice radiography in Maryland on July 27, 2016, under License Number R11742. The
Respondent's license is currently active and is scheduled for renewal on April 30, 2019.

2. On or about April 6, 2017, the Respondent initiated the process of
applying for renewal of her radiography license for the 2017 renewal period using the
Board’s online renewal application process. When a licensee applies online to renew
his/her license, a notice appears that informs the licensee that the Board may not renew
a license if it has not received the licensee's Criminal History Record Check ("CHRC")
information, which includes the licensee's submission of his/her fingerprints to the
Criminal Justice Information Services ("CJIS") before attempting to complete the
renewal application.

3, The Respondent submitted her online application (the "Application") on or
about April 6, 2017, along with the required renewal fee. The Application the
Respondent signed states, "Failure to submit to a... [CHRC] .. . may result in
disciplinary action." When submitting her online Application, the Respondent checked a
box attesting that she completed her CHRC.

3
4, By email dated July 21, 2017, Board staff informed the Respondent that
the Board had not received the CHRC she had attested to completing prior to filing the
renewal application. Board staff further informed the Respondent that she had ten
business days to submit the CHRC. The Board did not receive a response from the
Respondent.

5. By letter dated September 18, 2017, Board staff informed the Respondent
that it had initiated a preliminary investigation of this matter and required her to submit
documentation to support that she had obtained the CHRC no later than ten business
days after receipt of the letter. The Board did not receive a response from the
Respondent.

6. Panel A’s investigation determined that the Respondent failed to submit
her fingerprints to CJIS in compliance with the CHRC process, as set forth in Health
Occ. Il § 14-308.1, and misrepresented to the Board in her Application that she
completed her CHRC.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent violated Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il § 14-5B-14(a) (1), (3), (10),
and (28) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.).

ORDER
It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby
ORDERED that the license of Kelsie Grove, Radiographer, is REVOKED; and it

is further
ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.

Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014).

oa)ip|20i3 Chustin A A
Dat . Christine A. Farrell

Maryland State Board of Rhysicians

 

 
      

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-14.1(a), Ms. Grove has the
right to seek judicial review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial
review shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision
and Order. The cover letter accompanying this final decision and order indicates the
date the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for
in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov't § 10-222 and Title 7,
Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If Ms. Grove files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:

Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following
address:

Noreen M. Rubin

Assistant Attorney General

Department of Health and Mental Hygiene
300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
