IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

RENEE ATZENI-DANDREA, Radiographer * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: R12954 * Case Number: 2222-0087B
* * *& * * * * * * * * * *
ORDER OF DEFAULT

 

On October 25, 2022, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) charged Renee Atzeni-Dandrea, Radiographer, with being professionally, physically or
mentally incompetent, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(4). On
December 28, 2022, the case was referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for
an evidentiary hearing.

On December 30, 2022, OAH sent a notice to the parties that aremote video scheduling
conference would be held on January 24, 2023, at 9:30 am. The scheduling notice was sent to
Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea at her address of record.! On January 24, 2023, at 9:50 a.m., the
Administrative Law Judge (‘ALJ’) commenced the video scheduling conference. The
administrative prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State. Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea did not appear.
The ALJ noted that the notice was sent to Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea at her address of record, that the
notice was not returned as undeliverable, and that there was no request for postponement or
communication from Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea expressing any difficulty accessing the hearing.

Following the scheduling conference, on January 27, 2023, OAH sent a scheduling order
to the parties that notified the parties that a prehearing video conference would be held on March

9, 2023, at 9:30 a.m. None of the hearing notices or correspondence were returned to OAH as

' Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea confirmed her address of record on at least two occasions during the Board’s investigation.
undeliverable. The scheduling order informed Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea that the failure to appear at the
prehearing conference could result in a decision against the party that fails to appear.

On March 9, 2023, the ALJ held the video prehearing conference. The administrative
prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State. Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea did not appear. After waiting
until 9:53 a.m., the ALJ commenced the prehearing conference. The ALJ noted that the scheduling
order was sent to Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea’s address of record and emailed to her, and neither
correspondence was returned as undeliverable. There was no request for postponement filed or
any other communication from Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea as to why she was unable to attend the hearing
or that she had any problems joining the video conference. The ALJ, thus, concluded that Ms.
Atzeni-Dandrea received proper notice of the prehearing conference, and the State made a motion
for a proposed default order pursuant to OAH’s regulations. .

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “[i]f, after receiving proper notice as provided in
Regulation .0SC of this chapter, a party fails to attend or participate, either personally or through
a representative, in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the ALJ may
proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated by the
agency, issue a final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.” COMAR
28.02.01.23A.

On March 14, 2023, the ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order. The ALJ found that Ms.
Atzeni-Dandrea had proper notice of the March 9, 2023 video prehearing conference and that she
failed to appear or participate. The ALJ proposed that the Panel find Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea in
default, adopt as findings of fact the averments set out in the allegations of fact section of the

charges, and conclude as a matter of law that Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea violated Health Occ. § 14-5B-
14(a)(4) in the manner set forth in the charges. As a sanction, the ALJ proposed that Ms. Atzeni-
Dandrea’s license be revoked.

The ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea, the
administrative prosecutor, and the Board at the parties’ respective addresses of record. The
Proposed Default Order notified the parties that they may file written éxceptions to the proposed
order but must do so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed Default Order. The Proposed
Default Order stated that any exceptions and requests for a hearing must be sent to the Board with
a copy provided to the opposing party. Neither party filed exceptions. On May 10, 2023, this case
came before Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Board for final disposition.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel A concludes that Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea has defaulted and has not filed
exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted from
the allegations of fact in the October 25, 2022 charges and are deemed proven by the
preponderance of the evidence:

1. At all times relevant, the Respondent was licensed to practice

radiography in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to

practice radiography in Maryland on November 4, 2020, under License Number
R12954.

2. The Respondent practiced radiography at a health care facility (the
“Facility A”) located in Baltimore, Maryland from on or about, November 11,
2020, until her termination on or about October 25, 2021.

3. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after
receiving a Mandated 10-Day Report, on or about November 2, 2021, from Facility
A stating that it had terminated the Respondent’s employment due to unsatisfactory
performance. ‘

4, The Board’s investigation revealed that the Respondent began her
employment as a radiographer at Facility A on or about November 11, 2020.

2 To ensure confidentiality, the names of individuals, hospitals and healthcare facilities involved in this case are not
disclosed in this document.
Throughout her employment at Facility A, the Respondent received numerous
trainings and mentorship in various areas of radiography such as radiation safety,
patient positioning and customer service.

5. On or about February 15, 2021, the Respondent received a verbal
and written warning after a patient complained that the Respondent had been rough
in positioning her for an imaging study.

6. On or about March 25, 2021, the Respondent received a written
warning for failing to review a patient’s prescription and prior reports before
starting an examination.

7. On or about September 2, 2021, the Respondent received a final
written warning for advising a patient that the patient had a lump and was going to
make it, when the patient did not feel a lump and the radiologist advised that there
was no new lump.

8. On or about September 6, 2021, the Respondent performed an
imaging study of a patient but failed to document that the patient had suffered a
stroke recently. The Respondent’s failure to document that the patient had had a
recent stroke caused the patient to be recalled for a second imaging study.

9. On or about September 27, 2021, an imaging specialist at Facility A
performed an imaging audit of the Respondent and determined that the Respondent
still struggled with obtaining optimal images on patients.

10. On or about September 29, 2021, the Respondent performed both a
2D and 3D imaging on a patient resulting in excessive radiation to the patient.

11. On or about October I, 2021, the Respondent performed 21 imaging
studies on an implant patient with many repeat images that were suboptimal for
technique and positioning. The Respondent also performed 2D and 3D imaging
resulting in excessive radiation to the patient. A typical implant patient imaging
was eight images.

12. Onor about October 11, 2021, the Respondent signed a Last Chance
Agreement with Facility A. Facility A gave the Respondent one last chance to
improve her performance.

13. On or about October 25, 2021, the Respondent’s trainers at Facility
A reported that the Respondent was not receptive to following protocols for
positioning and documentation. The trainers advised that the Respondent
continued to make the same errors for which she was previously provided with
written warnings. :
14. On or about October 25, 2021, Facility A issued a written
termination of the Respondent's employment to be effective immediately.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A finds Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea in default based upon her failure to appear at the OAH
for the video prehearing conference scheduled for March 9, 2023. See State Gov’t § 10-210(4).
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, Panel A concludes that Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea is
professionally, physically or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(4).

SANCTION

Panel A adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ to revoke Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea’s

license to practice radiography.
ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the license of Renee Atzeni-Dandrea to practice radiography in Maryland
is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-41 1.1(b)(2) and

Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File

G30 [2053 — a
Date Elfen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director

Maryland Board of Physicians

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-14.1, Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea has the right
to seek judicial review of this Order of Default. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed

within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Order of Default. The cover letter
accompanying this Order indicates the date the decision was mailed.. Any petition for judicial
review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should
be served with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
Stacey Darin
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
