Jontier A. Robinson, Radiographer

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Jontier A. Robinson, Radiographer
License Number: R13608
Case Number: 7723-0037

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-SB-13 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R13608, effective
immediately, I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of radiography in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Radiation
Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act (the
“Act”), Health Occ.§ 15-5B-01 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation based on my “Yes” answers
on my initial application for licensure as a Radiographer. On May 25, 2022, Panel A
notified me of its intent to deny my application for initial licensure. As a resolution, I
entered into a Consent Order with Panel A on November 17, 2022 that concluded, as a
matter of law, that I was habitually intoxicated under Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(6). The
Consent Order reprimanded me and required that I enroll in and comply with the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). A copy of the Consent Order is attached
and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

1 acknowledge that I was discharged from MPRP on January 27, 2023 for failing to
comply with the terms and conditions of my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan, in violation of the Consent Order.
Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Jontier A. Robinson, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have decided to surrender my license to practice radiography in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent
Order and to avoid prosecution for failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the
Consent Order. I acknowledge that the Consent Order will remain and will continue to be
a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I
will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Consent Order as long as I do not
have or possess an active radiography license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to contest
these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a
formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

T understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-101 e¢ seg. (2014 Repl.
Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B
or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if] file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

l acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
the Applicant shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Applicant has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Consent
Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Applicant, place the Applicant on
probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and
conditions, or revoke the Applicant’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose
a civil monetary fine on the Applicant; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-5B-15.1(b) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6) (2021 Repl. Vol.).

“uw papoee Signature On File

Date Christine A. Farrélly, Exevutive Directo
Maryland State Board hysicians
CONSENT

I, Jontier Robinson, assert that I am aware of my right to consult with and be
represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any proceedings that
would otherwise result from the charges currently pending. I have chosen to proceed
without counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel is freely
and voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-14 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

Signature On File
9 120

Date J pits Robinson
pplicant
NOTARY

STATE OF DE lau we
CITY/COUNTY OF [en +~

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on __ this is day of
Miavenn bey 2022, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing
State and City/County, Jontier Robinson, personally appeared and made oath in due form

of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and notarial seal.

Notary Public

My commission expires: 2/2! fz)

i. ISABELLA MORIAH ASHMAN
Notary Public
State of Delaware
My Commission Expires On
February 21, 2024

       
     
Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Jontier A. Robinson, Radiographer
Letter of Surrender

Page 3
Verv tfuly vaurs. _ ,
Signature On File
Jé@ntier A. Robinson, Radiographer
NOTARY
STATE OF MI

CITY/COUNTY OF Ler rt

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this If day of Yel , 2023 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared ‘Jontier A. Robinson,

Radiographer., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of
this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

    
  
        

Notary Public

  

My commission expires: (o2 / { </aea s- ANAIYA MONET WASHINGTON
State of Delaware
ACCEPTANCE ¥ Commission Expiras On

Fabruary 16, 2025

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this { eh iny of EUbt uals 023, I, Christine A,
Farrelly, accept Jontier A. Robinson, Radiographer’s, PUBLICZSURRENDER of his
license to practice radiography in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File
Christine A. Farrelly’ Ex ety e Diretor/ /
Maryland Board of Physict f
Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF

JONTIER A. ROBINSON

Radiographer
Applicant
* * * * *

BEFORE THE MARYLAND

STATE BOARD

OF PHYSICIANS

CASE NUMBER: 2222-0108 A

* * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

On May 25, 2022, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board

of Physicians (the “Board”) notified Jontier A. Robinson (the “Applicant’), of its intent

to deny his Application for Radiographer Licensure (the ““Application’’), dated October 28,

2021 for violating the Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine

Technology and Radiology Assistance Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.

(“Health Oce.”) §§ 14-5B-01 et seq. (2021 Repl. Vol.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act provide:

Health Occ. § 14-5B-14. Denial of License

(a) In general — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this title,
a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quorum of the disciplinary panel, may deny a license to any
applicant...if the applicant...:

(6) Is habitually intoxicated[.]

The Applicant agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order.
FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds:
L BASIS OF BOARD INVESTIGATION
1. On or around November 22, 2021, the Board received the Applicant’s
| Application which was dated October 28, 2021.

2. On the Application, the Applicant answered “YES” to the following
Character and Fitness Questions:

15 g: Have you ever pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any criminal
charge, been convicted of a crime, or received probation before judgement
because of a criminal charge?

15 h: Have you ever committed an offense involving alcohol or controlled
dangerous substances to which you pled guilty or nolo contendere, or for
which you were convicted or received probation before judgment? Such
offenses include, but are not limited to, driving under the influence of alcohol
or controlled dangerous substances.

By With regard to Question 15 g and h, the Applicant explained in the
Application that since 2013 he had two Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol offenses
and one Negligent Driving offense.

4. The Applicant submitted with the Application court records and probation
documents related to his prior offenses.

Il. BOARD INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS
5: The Board opened an investigation of the Applicant based on the disclosures

he made in the Application. As part of its investigation, the Board reviewed the Application

and the materials submitted by the Applicant.
6. On or around, April 13, 2013, the Applicant was charged with traffic
offenses, including but not limited to, Driving While Impaired by Alcohol.

7. On or around January 3, 2014, the Applicant entered into a Guilty Plea
Agreement in the Circuit Court of Maryland in Kent County (Criminal Case Number: 14-
K-13-008350) to one count of Driving While Impaired by Alcohol. The Applicant was
sentenced to one year of supervised probation which the Applicant successfully completed.

8. On or around, April 16, 2017, the Applicant was charged with traffic
offenses, including but not limited to, Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol.

9. On or around September 7, 2017, the Applicant enrolled in a program (the
“Program”)! for evaluation and treatment.

10. On or around December 19, 2017, the Applicant entered into a Guilty Plea
Agreement in the Circuit Court of Maryland in Kent County (Criminal Case Number: C-
14-CR-17-000130) to one count of Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol. The Applicant
was sentenced to one year of incarceration, all suspended, and three years of supervised
probation which the Applicant successfully completed.

11. The Board subpoenaed and received the Applicant’s treatment records from
the Program (the “Treatment Records”).

12. The Treatment Records stated that the Applicant was evaluated, tested and,

on or around October 22, 2018, discharged with diagnosed medical conditions.’

*To maintain confidentiality, the names of health care facilities will not be identified in this document.
* To maintain confidentiality, the Applicant’s evaluations, test results and medical conditions will not be
disclosed in this document.
13. Onor around November 28, 2020, the Applicant was charged with Negligent
Driving after he was found to have driven a vehicle which was involved in a single car
accident which caused property damage (the “Accident”).

14. | The Board requested and received the Motor Vehicle Crash Report regarding
the Accident.

15. | According to the Motor Vehicle Crash Report, the Applicant stated that he
swerved to miss a deer however when the Accident was investigated, video footage of the
Accident was reviewed and deer were not observed.

16. Onor around December 16, 2020, the Applicant entered into a Guilty Plea
Agreement in the District Court of Maryland in Kent County to Negligent Driving.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter of law

that the Applicant was habitually intoxicated under Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(6).

ORDER
It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board hereby:

ORDERED that the Applicant’s application for initial medical licensure in the State
of Maryland is GRANTED; and it is further
ORDERED that the Applicant is REPRIMANDED; and it is further
ORDERED that the Applicant is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period
of ONE YEAR. The Applicant shall comply with the following terms and conditions of

probation:
1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with
MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall
fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent
shall not withdraw his/her release/consent;

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a
violation of this Consent Order;

ORDERED that the Applicant shall not apply for early termination of probation;
and it is further

ORDERED that, after the Applicant has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has passed,

and MPRP finds, and notifies the Board that the Applicant is safe to return to the practice
of radiography without further monitoring, the Applicant may submit a written petition for
termination of probation. The Applicant may be required to appear before the disciplinary
panel to discuss his petition for termination. After consideration of the petition, the
Applicant’s probation may be administratively terminated through an order of the
disciplinary panel if the Applicant has complied with all probationary terms and conditions
and there are no pending complaints relating to the charges and the panel finds his is safe
to practice, or if the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to
return to the practice of radiography without monitoring, the probation will be continued
through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by the
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director signs the
Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and
conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Applicant is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Applicant allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Applicant shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;

and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
