 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

THURMAN WATSON * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
Unlicensed * Case Number: 2015-0852
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
FINAL ORDER

On November 20, 2015, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) issued a
Cease and Desist Order to Thurman Watson with investigative findings and conclusion of law.
See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-206(e). The Board found that Mr. Watson had engaged in
the practice of medicine without a license and represented to the public that he was authorized to
practice medicine in this state when he was not authorized to do so. See Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. §§ 14-601, 14-602.

Mr. Watson challenged the factual and legal basis of the Cease and Desist Order by filing
an Opposition to the Cease and Desist Order on December 18, 2015. See COMAR
10.32.02.11E(3)(a). Mr. Watson did not challenge the cease and desist order itself, stating in his
opposition: “Mr. Watson agrees to cease and desist permanently any and all acts as defined in
Title 14 §101, et seq., Health Occupations Article.” Mr. Watson also had the opportunity to
request a hearing, but did not do so. Id.

The Board considered Mr. Watson’s written opposition to the Cease and Desist letter on
February 10, 2016. In addition to Mr. Watson's opposition, the Board has again considered the
investigative findings in this case. Mr. Watson's opposition, when considered in light of those
investigative findings, is unpersuasive. The Board continues to believe that Mr. Watson’s

conduct was consistent with the unauthorized practice of medicine and misrepresentation as a
 

practitioner of medicine, and that his actions pose a serious risk to the health, safety and welfare
of the public. The Board, therefore, affirms the Cease and Desist Order dated November 20,
2015.
FINDINGS OF FACT

The Board affirms and adopts in full the Investigative Findings from the November 20,
2015 Cease and Desist Order. The Cease and Desist Order’s Investigative Findings (pages 2-11
and {ff 1-56) are incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set forth in full.
See attached Cease and Desist Order, Exhibit 1. The Board rejects the opposition filed by Mr.
Watson.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

The Board affirms the Cease and Desist Order’s Conclusion of Law that there is a
preponderance of evidence that Mr. Watson’s actions pose a serious risk to the health, safety and
welfare of the public based on his unauthorized practice of medicine and misrepresentation as a
practitioner of medicine.

ORDER

Based on the above Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, by an affirmative vote
of a majority of a quorum of the Maryland State Board of Physicians, hereby

ORDERED that, pursuant to the authority vested by the Maryland medical Practice Act,
Health Occ. § 14-206(e), Mr. Watson shall CEASE AND DESIST from providing any and all
services that constitute the practice of medicine; and is further

ORDERED that this is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.

Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014).
 

  

 

63/02/2016 CL |
Date Christine A. Farrell

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.11E(3)(e), Mr. Watson has the right to seek judicial review
of this Final Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within 30 days from the date of
mailing of this Final Order. The cover letter accompanying this final order indicates the date the
decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the
Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of
the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Mr. Watson files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
David S. Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
