 

Melissa D. Harben

Date: \2[22| \ q ;

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Perfusion
Melissa D. Harben License Number: Y00014
Case Number: 2017-0248

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
perfusion in the State of Maryland, License Number Y00014, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not engage in the practice of perfusion,
with or without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Perfusion Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-5E-01 ef seg. (2014 Repl.
Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
September 6, 2017, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §
14-5E-16(a)(3) (is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of perfusion;
§14-SE-16(a)(4) Gs professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent); and § 14-5E-
16(a)(19) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of perfusion services).
Specifically, Panel A alleged that I failed to adequately restock the cardiac operating room;
failed to report for work in a timely manner; failed to properly operate perfusion
equipment; and failed to report a patient’s cardiac ischemic time to the attending surgeon
in a timely manner. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice perfusion in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges and because I have no intention
of practicing perfusion in Maryland in the foreseeable future.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges and
Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Melissa D. Harben

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

because I have no intention of practicing perfusion in Maryland in the foreseeable future.
I acknowledge that for all purposes related to perfusion licensure, the charges will be
treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license as
if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my
Maryland perfusion license, number Y00014.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if I demonstrate my professional
competence and fitness to practice perfusion to the satisfaction of Panel A or its successor,
and it does grant reinstatement, Panel A or its successor may impose any terms and
conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection
of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition
for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an
individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before
signing this letter surrendering my license to practice perfusion in Maryland. I understand
both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that
I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
AL ELIT

Date

 

BRIAN E. FROSH
ATTORNEY GENERAL

ae

K. F. Michael Kao

Assistant Attorney General

Office of the Attorney General

Health Occ. Prosecution & Litigation Div
300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
 

Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Melissa D. Harben

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Very truly yours,

Mlitir ho

Melissa D. Harben, Perfusionist

NOTARY

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 29. day of ‘Dcewnh+—, 2017 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared (4 ¢/.ss<_, and declared
and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was
his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

My commission expires: \ _\, ,
\N Lb, Ww

DANIELLE ROBILLARD |
é Notary Public |
? wycanmioen fies doyebeom — ACCEPTANCE

 

 

¢ ; y
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this } Tsay of Tanyas o- ; 20 | g I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept Melissa D. Harben’s PUBLIC SURRENDER of her license
to practice perfusion in the State of Maryland.

 
ATTACHMENT A
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

MELISSA D. HARBEN, L.P. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: Y00014 * Case Number: 2017-0248

* x * * * * * * * * * * *

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND PERFUSION ACT

 

Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the "Board")
hereby charges MELISSA D. HARBEN, L.P. (Licensed Perfusionist) (the “Respondent’),
License Number Y00014, under the Maryland Perfusion Act (the “Act”), codified at Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ. Il”) §§ 14-5E-01 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.).

Specifically, Disciplinary Panel A charges the Respondent with violating the
following provisions of the Act under Health Occ. II § 14-5E-16:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this

title, the Board, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
of the Board, may deny a license to any applicant, or a disciplinary
panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the
disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee

on probation, or suspend or revoke a license, if the applicant or
licensee:

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice
of perfusion;

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; [and]

(19) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
perfusion services[.]
ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

Disciplinary Panel A bases its charges on the following facts that it has reason to
believe are true:

I. BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
perfusion in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
perfusion in Maryland on October 1, 2013, under License Number Y00014. The
Respondent's license is current through January 31, 2018.

2. At times relevant, the Respondent was employed as a perfusionist at a
health care facility (the "Facility")? in Maryland. The Facility terminated the
Respondent's employment on or about October 6, 2016.

I. DISCIPLINARY HISTORY

3. On or about August 12, 2015, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board charged
the Respondent with violating various provisions of the Act. Disciplinary Panel A's
charges stemmed from the Respondent's self-report to the Board that she was
terminated from her employment as a perfusionist at a health care facility in Maryland
after testing positive for alcohol while at work.

4. The Respondent resolved Disciplinary Panel A's charges by entering into

a Consent Order, dated February 17, 2016, in which Disciplinary Panel A found as a

' The allegations set forth in these charges are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the
Board disciplinary panel's action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with these charges.

? To ensure confidentiality, the names of individuals, hospitals and healthcare facilities involved in this
case are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of the referenced
individuals or entities in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.
matter of law that the Respondent: was guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in
the practice of perfusion, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-5E-16(a)(3); and was
habitually intoxicated, in violation of § 14-5E-16(a)(6).

5. Pursuant to the Consent Order, Disciplinary Panel A reprimanded the
Respondent and ordered her to enroll in and successfully complete the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP").

lil. = CURRENT INVESTIGATION

6. On or about October 13, 2016, MPRP notified the Board that the Facility
terminated the Respondent's employment as a perfusionist for habitually being late and
making "mistakes" that could have endangered patient safety. The Board initiated an
investigation of the Respondent after receiving MPRP's report.

7. By letter to the Board, dated October 31, 2016, the Respondent provided
an explanation for her termination. The Respondent admitted that she made a
"technical error" in setting up the heart/lung machine, but asserted that she was being
“singled out" by her co-workers because she was being monitored by MPRP.

8. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained the Respondent's
personnel file from the Facility. A review of the Respondent's personnel file showed the
following:

a) On or about October 12, 2015, the Respondent received an oral
warning for failing to adequately restock the cardiac operating room

and correctly set up the pump in room two for emergency use.
g)

On or about February 2, 2016, the Respondent failed to report to
work by 8:30 a.m. as required. Perfusion services were needed at
9:00 a.m.

On or about February 5, 2016, the Respondent failed to report to
work at 7:00 a.m. as required. Perfusion services were needed at
7:05 a.m,

On or about February 9, 2016, the Respondent failed to timely
communicate to the operating physician the cardiac ischemic time.
On or about February 10, 2016, the Respondent left the Forane
vaporizer on overnight resulting in the vaporizer not being in
optimal-use for patient care the next day. The Respondent also
failed to set up the cardioplegia correctly.

On or about August 16, 2016, the Respondent failed to set up the
Cell Saver machine correctly causing the machine not to be in
ready condition for use during an emergency that same day.

On or about September 9, 2016, the Respondent failed to set up
the cardioplegia correctly. The Respondent attached the
cardioplegia purge line's one-way valve the wrong way creating
negative pressure in the delivery system going back to the

oxygenator.

9. On or about March 1, 2017, the Board referred its investigative materials

to a Maryland-licensed perfusionist (the "Expert") for an expert review. In a written

report, dated April 10, 2017, the Expert found that the Respondent was professionally
incompetent, failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of perfusion services
and was guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of perfusion.

10. | With respect to the Respondent's failure to report the cardiac ischemic
time in a timely manner, the Expert found that the protocol was to inform the surgeon of
the cardiac ischemic time at 30 minutes, and if no cardioplegia was given, at 60 minutes.
The Respondent's failure to report the cardiac ischemic time until 90 minutes later was
untimely and constituted a failure to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
perfusion services.

11. The Expert further found that the Respondent's failure to report on time for
work on at least two occasions, which resulted in delays in patient care, constituted
unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of perfusion.

12, Finally, the Respondent's failure to set up equipment correctly and her
failure to appropriately restock operating rooms constituted professional incompetence.
IV. GROUNDS FOR DISCIPLINE

13. The Respondent’s failure to adequately restock the cardiac operating
room and to report for work in a timely manner on at least two occasions during which
time patient procedures were scheduled constitutes engaging in unprofessional or
immoral conduct in the practice of perfusion, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-5E-
16(a)(3).

14. The Respondent's failure to properly turn off the Forane vaporizer, set up
the Cell Saver machine correctly and attach the cardioplegia purge line correctly
constitutes being professionally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-5E-

16(a)(4).
15. The Respondent's failure to report the patient's cardiac ischemic time to
the attending surgeon in a timely manner constitutes failing to meet appropriate
standards for the delivery of perfusion services, in violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-5E-
16(a)(19).

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board (Disciplinary Panel B) finds
that there are grounds for action under Health Occ. II § 14-5E-16(a)(3), (4) and/or (19),
Disciplinary Panel B may impose disciplinary sanctions in accordance with the Board's
regulations under Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.10, including reprimanding the Respondent,
placing the Respondent on probation, or suspending or revoking the Respondent's
license, and/or may impose a monetary penalty.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION

 

The Respondent may appear before Disciplinary Panel A, serving as the
Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution ("DCCR") in this matter, on WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 6, 2017, 9:00 A.M., at the Board's offices, 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR is described in the
attached letter to the Respondent. If this matter is not resolved before the DCCR, a
prehearing conference and hearing will be scheduled before an Administrative Law
Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley,
Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with the Administrative

Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov't II §§ 10-201 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.).
