 

IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

JULIA F. SLASKI, RPSGT * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: Z00361 * Case Number: 2017-0313B
JE ESI IS IOS ISI IS TOGO RIOR OCI SBS E IDE ISI SCISCI GSI ISIC ICI ORICI IACI ARI I IGRI AGRA IIIA A CEA a A
CONSENT ORDER

On August 2, 2017, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Julia F. Slaski, RPSGT, (the “Respondent”),
License Number Z00361, under the Maryland Polysomnography Act (the “Act”), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. Il”) § 14-5C-01 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016
Supp.).

The Respondent was charged under the following provisions of the Act:

Health Occ. Il § 14-5C-17
(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this title, the
Board, on the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board, may
deny a license to any applicant, or a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote
of a majority of a quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any

licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license, if
the applicant of licensee:

(3) Is guilty of unprofessional...conduct in the practice of
polysomnography;

(8) Provides professional services while:

(ii) Using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article or any other drug that
is in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical
indication;
 

(21) (i) Has been subject to investigation or disciplinary action by a
licensing or disciplinary authority or by a court of any state or
country for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action
under the Board’s disciplinary statutes; and
(ii) Has:

2. Allowed the license, if any, issued by the state or country
to expire or lapse[.]

On October 25, 2017, Disciplinary Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary
Committee for Case Resolution (‘DCCR’) in this matter. Based on negotiations
occurring as a result of this DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent

Order, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order.

I. FINDINGS OF FACT
Disciplinary Panel B finds:
BACKGROUND
1. At all times relevant, the Respondent was a polysomnographic technologist

licensed to practice in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed in
Maryland on or about October 3, 2013. The Respondent's license expired on or about
May 30, 2017."

2. The Respondent became certified as a Registered Polysomnographic
Technologist (RPSGT) on August 31, 2013. Her certification remains current through

August 31, 2018.

1 A polysomnographic technologist’s license is considered not to lapse on the expiration date if a
complaint and investigatory proceedings had commenced prior to the expiration date. See Health Occ. §
14-5C-16. Therefore, the Board maintains jurisdiction over the Respondent's license for the purpose of
these proceedings.

2
 

3. From on or about February 6, 2015 to August 4, 2016, the Respondent was
employed as a polysomnographic technologist at a medical center in Glen Burnie,
Maryland (Practice A).
4. On or about November 4, 2016, the Board received an anonymous phone
complaint stating that the Respondent had been arrested for passing a fraudulent
prescription.
5. On or about November 4, 2016, the Board initiated an investigation. As part of
its investigation, the Board conducted interviews and subpoenaed relevant records,
including the Respondent's criminal records from the District Court for Baltimore
County.

Criminal Case
6. In or about August 2016, the Respondent attempted to fill a prescription for a
schedule IV sedative at a pharmacy in Essex, Maryland (Pharmacy A). The pharmacist ,
working at the time contacted the physician listed on the Respondent's prescription
(Physician A) to confirm the validity of the prescription. Physician A denied that the
Respondent was a patient and denied having written a prescription for the Respondent.”
7. On or about August 2, 2016, the Pharmaceutical Division of the Baltimore County
Police Department (the “Division”) received a call from Pharmacy A stating that the
Respondent had passed a fraudulent prescription for a Schedule IV controlled
dangerous substance (CDS). In response, on or about August 2, 2016, the Division

arrested the Respondent for obtaining CDS via a fraudulent/forged prescription.

2 Physician A is a practitioner at Practice A where the Respondent was employed at the time.

3
 

8. On or about October 11, 2016, the District Court for Baltimore County resolved
the pending criminal charges by imposing probation before judgment (PBJ). As a result,
the Respondent was ordered to complete six months of unsupervised probation.

Board Investigation
9. On or about November 14, 2016, the Board subpoenaed and received the above
information relating to the Respondent's criminal charges and disposition.
10. On or about December 5, 2016, the Board sent a notice of investigation to the
Respondent, and requested a written response. The Respondent failed to submit a
written response to the Board.
11. On or about January 23, 2017, the Respondent was interviewed under oath by
Board staff:

a. The Respondent stated that she had found “a prescription that looked like it

was already completely filled out,> aside from the date[.]’ She only

acknowledged that she had written the date on the prescription.*

b. The Respondent stated that Physician A was assisting her with her
treatment;>

c. Practice A terminated the Respondent from employment as a result of the
Respondent’s prescription forgery.

12. On or about January 27, 2017, the Board subpoenaed and received the
Respondent's treatment records from her provider, Nurse Practitioner A. The
Respondent had been treated by Nurse Practitioner A since November 2014. On or

about June 30, 2016, Nurse Practitioner A had prescribed medications to the

3 The Respondent stated the prescription had been filled out by Physician A, a physician employed at
Practice A. Physician A however, was not the Respondent's treating physician. Nurse Practitioner A, a
provider from another practice, was treating the Respondent.

4 The handwriting in the body of the prescription appeared to be the same as the handwriting of the date.

5 Physician A denied that she had been treating the Respondent. See {] 14b.

4
 

Respondent including the Schedule IV sedative at issue in the forged August 2016
prescription.

13. The prescription for the Schedule IV sedative was written on Physician A’s
prescription pad and had been purportedly signed by Physician A. The handwriting in
the body of the prescription and the date appeared to have been written by the same
individual but differed from Physician A’s handwriting. The prescription had been
completed for 30 tablets with two refills.

14. Onor about February 7, 2017, Physician A was interviewed under oath by Board
staff.

a. The Respondent had worked as a sleep technician in the sleep laboratory
associated with Practice A;

b. Physician A denied ever providing medical services or writing any
prescriptions to the Respondent;

c. Physician A stated that she did not know how the Respondent had obtained a
prescription from Physician A’s prescription pad.’ Physician A stated that she
routinely kept her prescription pad in a locked drawer in her office;®

d. Physician A confirmed that the Respondent was terminated from Practice A
as a result of the Respondent passing a fraudulent/forged prescription that
she (the Respondent) had obtained during the course of her employment at
Practice A. She had “stamped” the prescription.

li. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent’s conduct constituted violations of Health Occ. Il § 14-5C-17(a)(3)
(unprofessional conduct in the practice of polysomnography) and (21) (has been subject

® According to Physician A, the prescription had been “stamped.” See ¥] 14d.

7 Physician A maintains that the prescription the Respondent obtained was “an old prescription from
several years back.”

® The Respondent stated during her interview that she had found the prescription in a “book” at her home;
however, this was inconsistent with the criminal statement of charges. The police officer documented that
the Respondent had told him she had “gotten some prescription paper from [Physician A’s] office,” where
she was employed at the time.
 

to investigation or disciplinary action by a court of any state for an act that would be
grounds for disciplinary action). Disciplinary Panel B agrees to dismiss the charges
under Health Occ. Il § 14-5C-8(ii) (providing professional service while using any
narcotic or controlled dangerous substance).

lll. ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, by
Disciplinary Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the following terms and conditions of this Consent Order shall
not take effect until the Respondent files a petition of reinstatement with the Board, to
include a reinstatement application, application fee, and complete any basic
qualification for licensure as required in the Board’s statutes and regulations including
but not limited to any required continuing education units and a criminal history
background check; and it is further

ORDERED that on the administrative reinstatement of the Respondent’s
polysomnographic license, said license shall be immediately SUSPENDED; and it is
further ORDERED:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) for evaluation and treatment. The Respondent shall enter into a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP.
The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including
disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. The

6
 

Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol treatment records;

3. The Respondent shall remain in the MPRP for the length of time
recommended by the MPRP. The Respondent shall fully, timely, and satisfactorily
cooperate and comply with all MPRP recommendations and requirements, including but
not limited to, the terms and conditions of any Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with the MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that after evaluation by the MPRP, the Respondent may petition the
Board to terminate the suspension of her polysomnography license and Panel B will
determine, based on the MPRP evaluation, whether the Respondent is safe to resume
the practice of polysomnography and whether to terminate the suspension and/or
terminate her enrollment in MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that on the termination of the Respondent's suspension, Panel B or
the Board may modify the Consent Order terms related to the enrollment in MPRP and
impose additional terms and conditions including but not limited to probation, after
providing the Respondent with an opportunity to be heard; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent fails to comply with any of the terms and
conditions of this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel in its discretion, after notice and
opportunity for a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel of the Board or an
evidentiary hearing at the Office of Administrative Hearings, may impose additional
sanctions authorized under the Polysomnography Act, including a reprimand,
suspension, probation, revocation and/or a monetary fine; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with all laws governing the practice
of medicine under the Maryland Polysomnography Act and all rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order shall be a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Gen Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014 & 2016 Supp.).

 

yWty
1/42 } 7 P
Date Christine A. Farrélly\ E

     

Maryland State Board ofPhysicians

7
 

CONSENT

|, Julia F. Slaski, RPSGT, License No. Z00361, by affixing my signature hereto,
acknowledge that:

| am represented by counsel and have consulted with counsel before entering
into this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the sole purpose of resolving the
issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent
Order and its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority
and jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this
Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of the
Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.

| sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

it

( \\ ouws Nd WY Lh

Date Julia\ F. Slaski, RPSGT

 

STATE/ DISTRICT OF

CITY/COUNTY OF:
 

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Qo day of Novwlso.- , 2017, before
me, a Notary Public of the State/District and County aforesaid, personally appeared
Julia F. Slaski, RPSGT, and gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent
Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

otary Public

My commission expires: Neember 6, AO} 7
