IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

* MARYLAND STATE
GEORGE OMALA, RPSGT

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: Z00440 * Case Number: 2016-0471B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

The Maryland State Board of Physicians (the "Board") charged George Omala,
RPSGT, Polysomnographic Technologist, (the "Respondent"), License Number Z00440,
under the Maryland Polysomnography Act (the "Act"), Md. Code Ann., Heath Occ. §§
14-5C-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.).

The pertinent provisions of the Act provide as follows:

§ 14-5C-20. Practicing without license prohibited.

Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, a person may not practice,

attempt to practice, or offer to practice polysomnography in this State

unless licensed to practice to practice polysomnography by the Board.

Prior to the issuance of a charging document, the Respondent agreed to enter
into the following Consent Order, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law,
Order and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT
1. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice polysomnography in Maryland

on November 12, 2013.

2. In or about late March 2015, the Board sent to the Respondent a postcard

reminding the Respondent that his license was scheduled to expire on May 30,

2015. The Respondent was advised of the location on the Board’s website

where he could renew his license and the amount of the renewal fee.
On or about May 1, 2015, the Respondent transmitted to the Board a form
entitled, “Application for Licensure for Polysomnographic Technologists —
Applicant's Preferred Date of License” and a money order in the amount of
$200.00.

The form submitted by the Respondent was not a licensure renewal application
which is required to renew a licensee’s license.

The Respondent's license expired on May 30, 2015.

By letter dated September 15, 2015, the Respondent was notified by the Board
that his license had expired on May 30, 2015, and that he was no longer
authorized to practice polysomnography. The letter further advised the
Respondent that he was required to apply for reinstatement of his license.
Appended to the Board’s letter was an Application for Reinstatement of
Polysomnographic Technologist License.

On or about October 5, 2015, the Respondent completed and transmitted to the
Board the Application for Reinstatement.

Effective December 8, 2015, the Respondent's license to practice
polysomnography was reinstated and he was notified by the Board of the
reinstatement.

Panel B’s investigation revealed that the Respondent practiced polysomnography
from May 31, 2015 through December 7, 2015. Specifically, the Respondent

performed technician services for approximately 163 patients during that period.
10. | The Respondent, through counsel, stated that he had tried to renew his license in
a timely manner, but failed to do so because of his misunderstanding of the
process.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the foregoing findings of fact, the Board concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent practiced polysomnography without a license from May 31, 2015
through December 7, 2015, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5C-20.
ORDER
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusion of Law, it is, by the

Board, hereby
ORDERED that within thirty (30) days, the Respondent shall pay a civil fine in the

amount of $250.00 by money order or bank certified check made payable to the

Maryland Board of Physicians, P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297 for deposit

into the General Fund of Maryland; and it is further
ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed

in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of

Panel B; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.

07/08 /Z01b Chup nt:

Date Christine A. Farrelly
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

 
CONSENT

1, George Omala., RPSGT, acknowledge that | am represented by counsel and
have consulted with counsel before entering this Consent Order. By this Consent and
for the purpose of resolving the issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be
bound by the foregoing Consent Order and its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and to all other substantive and procedural protections provided by the law. | agree to
forego my opportunity to challenge these allegations. | acknowledge the legal authority
and jurisdiction of the Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this
Consent Order. | affirm that | am waiving my right to appeal any adverse ruling of a
disciplinary panel of the Board that | might have filed after any such hearing.

I sign this Consent Order after having an opportunity to consult with counsel,
voluntarily and without reservation, and | fully understand and comprehend the

language, meaning and terms of the Consent Order.

   

- vo A
G-2-16 , ay K waala
Date George Omal
Respondent
 

NOTARY .
rgyu lee
CITYIGOUNTY OF “Pinca WW Nien
| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this_2*” day of Seprurhs— 2016, before me,
a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared George
Omala, RPSGT, and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal7~

   
 

   

Wf,

JHOBAN A. RIVERA-CONTRERAS
10

NOTARY PUBLIC
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES APRIL 30, 2020
COMMISSION # 7222111

 

My Commission expires:__“f [se lo. 20
