Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Richard Falcioni, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

discretion of Panel B. A copy of the Consent Order is attached and incorporated herein
as Attachment 1.

I admit that I failed to comply with the terms of the Consent Order by failing to
take the required courses within six (6) months of the Consent Order. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid prosecution
for violating the Consent Order and due to my planned retirement. I acknowledge that the
Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however,
upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the
conditions of the Order as long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender. I acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing,
the State would be able to prove that I violated the terms Consent Order by a
preponderance of the evidence.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest any charges related to my violation of the Consent Order. In waiving
my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel
at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own
behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including
the right to appeal to a circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014),
and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose terms and conditions in conformity with or in addition to those set forth in
the Consent Order. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I
will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license
has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
