represented the State, The Respondent did not appear. I schediled a pre-hearing conference for
October 29, 2018 and a hearing for November 26, 2018, both to begin at 10:00 a.m. at the OAH.

On October 10, 2018, the OAH sent a Notice of Pre-hearing Conference and a Notice of
Hearing to the Respondent at her address of record with the Board. The notices provided the
dates, times, and locations for the pre-hearing conference and the hearing. The notices explained
the consequences of a failure to appear. The Notice of Hearing advised the Respondent that her

“failure to appear may result in dismissal of your case or a decision against you.” The United
States Postal Service did not retum either of the notices to the OAH as undeliverable.

On October 29, 2018, I conducted a pre-hearing conference at the OAH. Ms, Wilcox-
Mundy again represented the State. The Respondent represented herself. During the pre-hearing
conference, I remindéd the Respondent of the hearing date.

On November 7, 2018, I issued a pre-hearing conference report and order, in which I
again advised the Respondent that the hearing was scheduled for November 26, 2018, at 10:00

. a.m. at the OAH,

On November 26, 2018, I convened a hearing as scheduled. Ms. Wilcox-Mundy again
represented the State. Lily Schmulowitz, a Compliance Analyst Associate with the Board,
appeared as a potential witness for the State. The Respondent did not appear. After waiting
approximately thirty minutes, and with the Respondent still not having appeared, I went on the
record. The State asked that I issue a proposed default order against the Resporident, with a
proposed revocation of the Respondent’s license to practice as a physician assistant. The State

submitted thirteen exhibits that it had planned to offer into evidence ata hearing, I admitted
those exhibits, which are contained in a binder, into evidence so that the Board or a disciplinary

panel of the Board would be able to consider them in reaching its final disposition.
