Section 15-315(a) of the Health Occupations Article provides that before a disciplinary
panel takes any action under section 15-314(a) if that article, the disciplinary panel shall give the
individual against whom the action is contemplated an opportunity for a hearing before a hearing
officer, or, in this case, an administrative law judge. The administrative law judge shall give
notice of “the hearing in accordance with Title 10, Subtitle 2 of the State Government Article
{Administrative Procedure Act].” Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-31 5(a)(2) (Supp. 2018). The
statute, however, provides that” (a]t least 14 days before the hearing, the hearing notice required
under this subtitle shall be sent by certified mail to the last known address of the individual.” Id.
§ 15-31 5(a)(4). The Administrative Procedure Act provides that the OAH “shall give all parties
in a contested case reasonable written notice of the hearing,” and does not require the OAH to
send hearing notices by certified mail. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-208(a) (2014).

The specific requirement in the Health Occupations Article for notice by certified mail
controls procedure in this case, so the OAH erred by not sending the Notice of Hearing to the
Respondent by certified mail. The Respondent, however, was not prejudiced by the OAH’s
mistake because the Respondent had actual notice of the hearing by the Notice of Hearing sent
by first class mail, by my telling the Respondent about the hearing during the pre-hearing
conference, and by my pre-hearing conference report date and order. It would exalt form over
substance under these circumstances to excuse the Respondent’s failure to appear for the hearing
when she clearly knew of the date, time, and location of the hearing. As noted by the Court of
Special Appeals in Maryland State Bd. Of Nursing v. Sesay, 224 Md. App. 432, 447 (2015), the
primary purpose for providing notice is to apprise the interested parties of the hearing and afford

them an opportunity to be heard, That purpose was served in this case by means other than notice

by certified mail to the Respondent,
