proposed order of default and that the ALJ recommend to the disciplinary panel that Ms. Burns-
Ross’s license to practice as a physician assistant be revoked.

On December 10, 2018, the ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order based upon the OAH
proceedings described above. The ALJ found that Ms. Burns-Ross had actual notice of the
November 26, 2018 hearing and that she failed to appear. The ALJ acknowledged that the.
hearing notice in this case was sent by regular mail and not by certified mail, even though
certified mail is required by section 15-314(a)(4) of the Health Occupations Article, but
concluded that Ms. Burns-Ross was not prejudiced by the error because she had actual notice of
the hearing when the ALJ informed the parties of the hearing at the prehearing conference, which
Ms. Burns-Ross attended. The ALJ proposed that the panel find Ms. Burns-Ross in default,
adopt as fact the statements set out in the allegations of fact section of the charges, conclude as a
matter of law that Ms. Burns-Ross violated Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(1), (3)(ii), and (36) in the
manner set forth in the charges, and revoke her license to practice as a physician assistant.

On December 10, 2018, the ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Ms.
Burns-Ross, the administrative prosecutor, and the Board, at the parties’ respective addresses of
record, The proposed decision notified the parties that they may file written exceptions to the
proposed decision but must do so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed Default Order. The
Proposed Default Order stated that any exceptions and request for a hearing must be sent to the
Board with attention to the Board’s Executive Director. Neither party filed exceptions. On
February 27, 2019, this case came before Disciplinary Panel B of the Board for final disposition.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B adopts the ALJ’s discussion regarding the notice requirements and the notice

provided to Ms. Burns-Ross set forth on pages 3-4 of the Proposed Default Order. The
