CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of
law that Respondent violated Health Occ. Il § 15-314 (2) (... deceptively uses a
license); (3)(ii)(Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine);
(8)(Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance as defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article); (9)(ii)(Provides
professional services: while using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is in
excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication); and
(11)(Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of medicine).

ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is on
the affirmative vote of a majority of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that Respondent's license to practice medicine is retroactively
SUSPENDED from November 10, 2015.° During the suspension, Respondent
shall fully and satisfactorily comply with all of the following terms and conditions:

1. Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (“MPRP”). Within five (5) business days, Respondent
shall contact MPRP to schedule an_ initial consultation for
enrollment. Within fifteen (15) business days, Respondent shall
enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and
timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and
requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions

of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully

3 if the Respondent fails to renew her license during the period of suspension, the suspension will
not be terminated until her license is reinstated. COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a). If the Respondent's
license expires, she will have to apply for and meet the requirements for reinstatement before
petitioning the Panel for termination of the suspension. See COMAR 10.32.02.06A (4).

7
