Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. A copy of the Order After
Show Cause Hearing is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

I acknowledge that I failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the Order
After Show Cause Hearing by violating my MPRP Participant Agreement. As a result,
Panel A voted to charge me with violating the terms of the Order After Show Cause
Hearing. I acknowledge that the Order After Show Cause Hearing remains and will
continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of
Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Order After Show
Cause Hearing.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution for violating the Order After Show
Cause Hearing. I acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be
able to prove that I violated the Order After Show Cause Hearing by a preponderance of
the evidence and that such charges shall be treated as proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest any charges related to my violation of the Order After Show Cause
Hearing. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be
represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to a circuit court.

[ understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action
by Panel A.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may
impose terms and conditions in conformity with or in addition to those set forth in the Order
After Show Cause Hearing: I further understand that if I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make to make it clear that ] have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
