1. Ms. Ferguson shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in her Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, as follows:

A, Ms. Ferguson shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

B, Ms. Ferguson’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order;

C. Ms. Ferguson shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order, A failure to, or withdrawal of consent is a violation of this Order;

D. Ms. Ferguson shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.c., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of Ms. Ferguson’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Ms. Ferguson and to ensure
that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Ms. Ferguson,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records; and

2, Ms. Ferguson shall establish and implement a procedure by which Ms. Ferguson’s
patients may obtain their medical records without undue burden and notify all patients of
that procedure; and it is further
ORDERED that Ms. Ferguson shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it

is further
ORDERED that, after a minimum of six months has passed and Ms. Ferguson has fully

and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension, Ms. Ferguson may

submit a written petition for termination of suspension. After determination that Ms. Ferguson

 

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the state;
(5) dispense medications; or
(6) perform any other act that requires an active Physician Assistant license.

4 If Ms. Ferguson’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be tolled.

5
