has complied with the relevant terms of the suspension, the disciplinary panel may

administratively terminate Ms. Ferguson’s suspension through an order of the disciplinary panel;

and it is further

ORDERED that, upon termination of the suspension, Ms. Ferguson will be placed on

PROBATION for a minimum period of FIVE (5) YEARS. During the probationary period

Ms. Ferguson shall comply with the following probationary terms and conditions:

1.

Ms. Ferguson shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in her Participant

Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, as follows:

2

A, Ms. Ferguson shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

B. Ms. Ferguson’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order;

Cc. Ms. Ferguson shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. A failure to, or withdrawal of consent is a violation of this Order;

D. Ms. Ferguson shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of Ms. Ferguson’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Ms. Ferguson and to ensure
that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Ms. Ferguson,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records; and

Ms. Ferguson shall comply with the Maryland Physician Assistants Act, Md.

Code ‘Ann., Health Occ. §§ 15-101—15-502, and all federal and state laws and
regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

 

5 If Ms. Ferguson’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.

6
