Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C

Arun Bhandari, Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Mary Kate Ferguson, PA-C

License Number: C01577

Case Number: 7719-0099

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§15-312 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland, License Number C01577,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 15-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
January 25, 2019, Panel A issued charges entitled, Amended Violation of Board Order and
Notice to Show Cause, alleging that I violated the terms and conditions of the Disposition
Agreement based on my failure to comply with my MPRP Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement. On February 13, 2019, I attended a show cause hearing before Panel A, with
my counsel present. At the hearing, I admitted that I had violated the Disposition
Agreement. On April 11, 2019, the Order After Show Cause Hearing was issued, which
terminated the August 26, 2015 Disposition Agreement, suspended my license for a
minimum of six (6) months, and upon the termination of the suspension, imposed a
minimum probationary period of five (5) years. During the suspension and the probation,
I was required to remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in my Participant Rehabilitation
