 

Virginia M. Vesay, P.A.-C.

   

Junef , 2016

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice as a Physician Assistant
License Number: C02940
MBP Case Number: 2016-0715B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to
practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland, License Number C02940, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland as it is defined
in the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Occ.”) §§ 15-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that
1 am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”)
acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B.

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation based on the criminal charges that
are pending against me in the State of Pennsylvania. The charges issued in the Court of
Common Pleas of Schuylkill County are related to allegations that I fraudulently wrote and
passed prescriptions for controlled dangerous substances and that I wrote prescriptions for
controlled dangerous substances using a doctor’s name without his permission. I have decided to
permanently surrender my license to practice as a physician assistant in the State of Maryland in
lieu of further investigation and disciplinary action related to the Pennsylvania criminal charges.
I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be
treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 15-
314(a)(3)Gi) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine) and (27) (sells, prescribes,
gives away, or administers drugs for illegal or illegitimate medical purposes).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
