Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Virginia M. Vesay, P.A.-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

aforementioned allegations in order to resolve this matter because I no longer wish to practice as
a physician assistant in Maryland.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license
as if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form
in any other state or jurisdiction, that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board or Panel B to the same extent as a Final Order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this
Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender,I will present to the
Board my original Maryland medical license number C02940, and ny, amost recent wallet-sized

renewal card. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of Veer, recor
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. Cae af!

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this sense thee Letter of Surrendéx, my
license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice as a physician assistant in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any application
for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date and that I waive any hearing rights
regarding any such application.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B,
including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I voluntarily choose to surrender my
Maryland license to practice as a physician assistant pursuant to the terms and conditions set out
herein. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly "Oe

Ut M. me P.A-C.

Cur

ap No
