a few days of returning from Nigeria that Physician A was permanently gone, The Respondent

- signed the delegation agreement application for Physician C to serve as-her new supervising
physician on December 2, 2014, before she left for Ni geria. If she did not know until a few days
after she returned Physician C would be taking over for the Physician A, she would have had no
reason to complete the application more than amonth eatlier, The Respondent testified she
signed the agreement because Hospital A expected to move her between the three physician
practices, That explanation makes no sense because the Board would not need to know she was
moving from one office to another. The Respondent signed the agreement to have Physician C
take over for Physician A. Thus, I find the Respondent knew, before she left for Nigeria, that
Physician A was leaving and she knew she needed a delegation agreement for Physician C.

The Respondent testified that at some unspecified time after she returned from Nigeria,
she asked the office manager at the physician group practice where she was assigned who her
supervisor. was and she did not get an “exact answer.” This supervisor would have been
someone in the hospital’s organizational structure, not a supervising physician under a delegation
agreement. By her own admission, the Respondent was familiar with the approval process for
delegation agreements, so she should have known the Board would have advised her whether it
had approved a supervising physician, not the office manager, This is true even if the hospital’s
credentialing office had submitted her application for a delegation agreement.

Also, Physician C testified she only ever expected to serve as the Respondent’s
supervising physician from January or February 2015 to June 2015. The Respondent testified
she knew this was the case, The Respondent did not present any evidence that she signed a new
delegation agreement for someone to replace Physician C. Thus, even if the Respondent had a
reasonable basis for believing the delegation agreement with Physician C had been filed with the

17
