and she knew the Board had not accepted her delegation agreement for Physician C to supervise
her because she never received notice from the Board it had accepted theit delegation agreement.

In fairness to the Respondent, however, there is some evidence that raises the possibility
Hospital A would file a delegation agreement for her. Physician A sent a note to the hospital’s
Director of Human Resources stating the Respondent told him to forward the delegation
agreement when he completed his sections, Obviously, Physician A meant the delegation
agreement application, Although he did not say he was enclosing the application, it is obvious
_ he did because otherwise there would be no purpose to his note and he would have had no reason
to tell the Director of Human Resources the delegation agreement needed to be sent to the Board
with the fee, Physician A was cotrect that the delegation needed to be filed with Board, but that
does not mean Hospital A was responsible for taking the action.

Also, the record includes a partially obscured document that, for lack of a better
description, I will call a check authorization order. State Ex. 5, p. 84. I say partially obscured:
because a post-it note or other piece of paper was on top of the document when it was
photocopied and I cannot see what is underneath, J conclude the check authorization order came
_ from Hospital A because the first two letters in its name are visible, Lalso see the words “Make
Check Payable To:” followed by Maryland, although the rest of the title is obscured, I see a
partial P.O. Box address in Baltimore that may or may not belong to the Board. At the bottom
of the invoice, in the “Reason/Comments” section, is a notation that an unspecified person
. should contact the Director of Human Resources to pick up the check which was written for the
Respondent’s benefit,

Together these two pieces of evidence raise a question about whether Hospital A was
going to file the delegation agreement for the Respondent, Even-if that were the case, the

i)
