(8) A description prepared by the primary supervising physician of the process by
which the physician assistant's practice is reviewed appropriate to the practice
setting and consistent with current standards of acceptable medical practice;
(9) An attestation by the primary supervising physician that the physician will
respond in a timely manner when contacted by the physician assistant;
(10) The following statement: “The primary supervising physician and the
physician assistant attest that:
(i) They will establish a plan for the types of cases that require a physician
plan of care or require that the patient initially or periodically be seen by
the supervising physician; and
(ii) The patient will be provided access to the supervising physician on
request”; and
(11) Any other information deemed necessary by the Board to carry out the
provisions of this subtitle. .

Health Occ. § 15-302(a); see also COMAR 10,32,03.05B, C.

“A physician assistant may practice in accordance with a delegation agreement filed with
_ the Board.” Health Occ. § 15-302 (m). The Board may disapprove the delegation agreement if
there are “[I]icensure or compliance issues with the primary supervising physician or the
physician assistant” or failure of the agreement to contain the required information, COMAR
10,32,03.06A(2). “The Board shall notify the primary supervising physician and the physician
assistant of the Board’s receipt of the delegation agreement.” COMAR 10.32.03.06B(2). “To
the extent practicable, the Board shall approve a delegation agreement or take other action with
respect to a delegation agreement within 90 days after receiving a completed delegation.
agreement including any information from the physician assistant and. primary supervising
physician,” COMAR 10.32.03.06G. “Ifa delegation agreement does not include advanced
duties or the advanced duties have been approved under § 15-3 02(c)(1) of this subtitle, a
physician assistant may assume the duties under a delegation agreement on the date of receipt by
the Board of the delegation agreement.”!° Health Oce,, § 15-302,1(a)m(2014).

'° The State does not allege that the Respondent was delegated advanced duties.
13
