Respondent, as the licensee, is responsible for making sure the delegation agreement was
accepted. Ms, Dicken testified that when the Board approves (or disapproves) an application for
a delegation agreement, it notifies the applicant by email and regular mail with a copy to the
supervising physician. The Respondent testified she knew to expect notice from the Board that it
had accepted an agreement. Thus, irrespective of who was going to file the delegation
agreement, the Respondent knew the Board had not accepted one for Physician C,

The Respondent testified she knew she did not receive anything from the Board about a
delegation agreement with Physician C and “time went by so fast” that she forgot about it. The
Respondent is not permitted to practice without a delegation agreement. She is not a doctor, and
having a supervising physician is required, Forgetting to ensure she has an acceptable delegation .
agreement is careless and unprofessional.

The Respondent somehow excuses not having a delegation agreement in place with
Physician C on the basis she did not initially realize Physician A was gone when she returned from
Nigeria. If Physician A left suddenly and without her prior knowledge, I would apply the law
governing sudden departure of a supervising physician. In that event, “a designated alternate
supervising physician may assume the role of the primary supervising physician by submitting a new
delegation agreement to the Board within 15 days.” Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-302(m).
Thus, even if Physician A left suddenly while the Respondent was in Nigeria, she was obligated to
submit a new delegation to the Board within the prescribed period on her return, She never did that.

In any evident, I reject the Respondent’s claim that she was caught off guard by
Physician A’s departure. The Respondent testified when she returned from Nigeria she labored
under the belief Physician A was merely on vacation and thus she did not know Physician A
would no longer serve as her supervising physician. The Respondent testified she learned within

16
