10.

11.

12,

13.

notified the Respondent by email and regular mail that it had accepted each delegation
agreement.

On February 6, 2014, Hospital A extended an offer of employment to the Respondent to
serve as a physician assistant.

In February 2014, the Respondent and Physician A signed a delegation agreement to serve as
the Respondent’s supervising physician. Hospital A wrote a check to the Board for $200.00
for the Board’s delegation agreement application fee. On February 27, 2014, Physician A
sent a note to Hospital A’s Director of Human Resources stating the Respondent had asked
him to forward the delegation agreement to her after he completed his sections. Physician A
advised the Director of Human Resources the delegation agreement needed to be filed with
the Board along with the fee.> On March 5, 2014, Hospital A approved the issuance of a
check for the delegation agreement fee; the approval form contains a notation for an
unspecified person to see the Director of Personnel to pick up the check “that is for a
delegation agreement for a PA [Respondent].” On April 4, 2014, the Board notified the
Respondent by email that it had received the delegation agreement and preliminarily —
approved Physician A to setve as her supervising physician and she should consider the
delegation approved unless she heard otherwise within 90-120 days.

On April 28, 2014, the Respondent started work at Hospital A as a physician assistant.
Physician D has served as Hospital A’s medical director since June 2016. The Respondent
was already working at Hospital A when Physician D started in that position. Physician D

has never supervised a physician assistant under the hospital’s hierarchy and has never

5 Physician A used only a first name in his salutation. State Ex. 5, p. 85. The State’s evidence includes a note about
the delegation application fee that refers to the person by her first name and both initials of her hyphenated jast
name. d, p. 84. The only person of record who fits that first name and initials is the Director of Human Resources,
whose complete name and title are found at State Exhibit 5 in an email from the director on April 14, 2014, Id. p.

48.

6
