Moreover,

(a) A physician may delegate medical acts to a physician assistant only after:
(1) A delegation agreement has been executed and filed with the Board;
and .
(2) Any advanced duties have been authorized as required under
subsection (c) of this section.

Health Occ. § 15-302(a); see also COMAR 10.32.03.05A. “Nothing in... title [15] may be
construed to authorize a physician assistant to practice independent of a primary or alternate
supervising physician.” Jd. § 15-301(a). Moreover,

(b) A license issued to a physician assistant shall limit the physician assistant’s
scope of practice to medical acts:
(1) Delegated by the primary or alternate supervising physician;
(2) Appropriate to the education, training, and experience of the physician
assistant;
(3) Customary to the practice of the primary or alternate supervising
‘physician; and
‘(4) Consistent with the delegation agreement filed with the Board,

"Td. § 15-301 (b).
A propertly executed delegation agreement on file with the Board shall include the
following information:

(1) A description of the qualifications of the primary supervising physician and.
. physician assistant;

(2) A description of the settings in which the physician assistant will practice;

(3) A description of the continuous physician supervision mechanisms that are

reasonable and appropriate to the practice setting; /

(4) A description of the delegated medical acts that are within the primary or

alternate supervising physician's scope of practice and require specialized

education or training that is consistent with accepted medical practice;

(5) An attestation that all medical acts to be ‘delegated to the physician assistant

are within the scope of practice of the primary or alternate supervising physician

and appropriate to the physician assistants education, training, and level of

competence; .

(6) An attestation of continuous supervision of the physician assistant by the

primary supervising physician through the mechanisms described in the

delegation agreement;

(7) An attestation by the primary supervising physician of the physician’s

acceptance of responsibility for any care given by the physician assistant;

12
