5. The Board will review and accept or reject the delegation agreement, The Board advises a
physician assistant of its decision by email and regular mail, with a copy to the supervising
physician by regular mail, and by email if the Board has an email address. The Respondent
knew she would receive written notice from the Board about whether it accepted the
delegation agreement, |

6. A delegation agreement does not have an expiration date; an agreement continues until the
relationship ends, such as when the supervising physician elects not to serve in a supervisory
capacity. When a physician assistant wants or needs a new supervising physician, the
physician assistant must file a new delegation agreement with the Board.

7. The Respondent is a licensed physician assistant in Delaware and Pennsylvania.

8. Hospital A’s Medical Staff Office ensures its physician assistants are properly credentialed
(and is thus sometimes referred to as the credentialing office by the Respondent and others).
The Medical Staff Office sends each provider a licensure application and a checklist of
information it needs to appoint or reappoint a provider to the staff, including licensure
verification, insurance verification, peer references, government agency reviews, and a
delegation agreement. A completed appointment or reappointment application is forwarded

to the appropriate department chair for review and then to the Credentials Committee for
further review. Someone from the Medical Staff Office will check the Board’s website to
verify the provider has submitted the delegation agreement to the Board.’

9. Prior to accepting employment at Hospital A, the Respondent worked as a physician assistant
elsewhere. For that prior employment, the Respondent personally filed between three and

five delegation agreements for a specific physician to serve as her supervisor. The Board

__ “The evidence does not show whether Hospital A has a procedure for verifying the filing of a second delegation
agreement after the first has ended, ~

5
