 

In sition, the State provided the Mandated 10-Day Report — | which
was submitted to the Board i in June 2015, indicating that the Respondent was terminated “due to,
poor attendance and failure to follow policy and protocols.” (State Ex. 8G.) The Respondent’ 8
claim that he resigned i ts inconsistent with both his own written statement and the employer’s

_ account of his separation. It is clear from the evidence that he was terminated con
_ | )
Even less credible i is the Respondent’s version of] his separation ion

Hospital. The ‘Respoindent claimed that he-voluntarily resigned because he was-expected to work
“every weekend, rather than one weekend a month, as he had been told when he was hired. He
‘ denied that he was the subject of complaints by patients or colleagues, orthat there were any issues
scenring quality of care. However, the employment records obtained by the Board ard submitted
. into evidence demonstrate that the Respondent was ‘the subject of complaints regarding his
- interactions with patients arid colleagues, and that his employer had concems about quality of care
and patient safety. (tox 6.) The Respondent himself signed an SSmployee/Supervisor Written
Conference Report dated Ji anuary 4, 2017, which documented the complaints and patient safety

" jgsues, as well as the employer’ s detailed discussion of these issues with the Respondent, .

The Respondent denied that the signature on the January 4, 2017 document is his; he argued

. that the signature differs from the one he provided on other documents, pointing specifically to
delegation documents (State Ex. 8H, p. 7) and a Court Return Notice (Gute Ex. 7A, p. 299)
bearing his signature. Certainly the signatures are not idetica (on the J anuary 4, m7 document,
for example, the signature includes only the first initial, while the other two signatures have the .
Respondent's first name varitted out in full). ‘In addition, there are some smell irregularities in the
March 7, 2017 Employee/Supervisor ‘Written Conference Report; fot example, the Report bears a

signature that appears fo be crossed out, as if someone (not the Respondent) initially signed in the

we

 
