 

under investigation for disciplinary reasons. Again, the Respondent provided a false answer on
this Renewal Application. . —

The State’s position with regard to the 201 5 Renewal Application is less compelling; as
the State acknowledges, at the time the Respondent completed the renewal application, in early .
May 2015, he had not yet been terminated com Es: responses on the renewal
application were therefore truthful at the time he completed the application. While it is true that -
he did not correct his dnswer when he was terminated just a few weeks later, which was before
the renewal deadline, the renewal application contains no statement about an obligation to
correct or amend information provided in the application. Certainly the most forthright approach
would have been for the Respondent to notify the Board of his termination in early June.
However, I am not persuaded that his failure to do so was willfully deceptive or fraudulent.

I conclude that the Respondent made false representations on multiple applications
submitted to the Board, including the 2014 Reinstatement Application, the Credentialing
Application, and the 2017 Renewal Application. , ,

* Finally, [ tum to the specific violations with which the Board has charged the Respondent

under section 1s- 314(a) of the Health Occupations Article: that the Respondent fraudulently or

’ deceptively obtained or attempted t to obtain a license; that the Respondent is guilty of

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; and that the Respondent willfully made a false
representation when secking or making application for licensure or any other application related
to the practice of medicine. The State emphasizes that the false information submitted by the
Respondent was submitted over a period, of three years and involved multiple applications, noting
that this is indicative of a pattern of deception, rather than-a careless oversight. The State, also

noted the particular importance of honesty in the practice of medicine. The State contends that @

 
