 

that Mr. Gbadamosi had been counseled repeatedly and recommended that he be terminated,
citing concerns about Mr, Gbadamosi’s work performance, including responsiveness to patient
needs and colleagues, rudeness, inadequate patient care, and medication errors. The March 7,
2017 meeting was preceded by an earlier meeting that Mr. Gbadamosi had with the supervisor in
January, 2017 (Finding of Fact 20), as documented on an Employee/Supervisor Written
Conference Report dated January 4, 2017. In his exceptions, Mr. Gbadamosi argues that the ALJ
erred in making Finding of Fact 21 because the Employee/Supervisor Written Conference Report
dated March 7, 2017 from the hospital does not contain his signature or verify that it was ever
presented to him. Again, the record does not support Mr. Gbadamosi’s arguments.

Mr, Gbadamosi’s hospital employment records® demonstrate that Mr. Gbadamosi was the
subject of multiple formal and informal complaints at the hospital regarding rudeness,
responsiveness, and attendance issues, as well as unprofessional interactions with nursing staff
and patients, and the quality of care he was providing to patients. It is also evident that Mr.
Gbadamosi was aware of these complaints because he signed the Employee/Supervisor Written
Conference Report dated January 4, 2017. In that January 4, 2017 Report, Mr. Gbadamosi’s
supervisor included specific feedback and responses that he gave to the supervisor’s questions in
the “Employce’s Comments” section of the document. At the hearing, the ALJ did not find
credible Mr, Gbadamosi’s assertion that the signature on the January 4, 2017 report was not his,
nor did she accept his claims that he was unaware of the hospital’s complaints against him. Panel
B is similarly unpersuaded.

First, upon inspection, the signature “A, Gbadamosi” on the January 4, 2017 Report
merely omits the remaining letters of Mr. Gbadamosi’s first name, and the last name
“Gbadamosi” is identical to all other documents in the record containing his signature with his

3 Mr, Gbadamosi’s employment records from the hospital were obtained by the Board and submitted into evidence.

7

 
