previous ‘disciplinary history; whether the violation was deliberate, grossly negligent, or reckless;

‘potential or actual harm; whether the violation was part of a pattern; whether there were multiple

 

i offenses adjudicated in a single action, whether financial gain was a “factor, the vulnerability of the

 

patients; whether the individual attempted to hide the error; concealment, falsification, or destruction
of evidence; failure to cooperate with investigation; and evidence of previous failure of
rehabilitation. .

Of these factors, the State noted i in particular the deliberateness of the Respondent's actions,
the pattern of deception, the factually discrete offenses being addressed ina single action, and the
Respondent’s continued attempts to conceal and/or minimize his conduct. The State proposes a

. one-year suspension, with possible reinstatement upon application at that time, and payment of a.
$25,000. 09 fine before submission of that application. The State acknowledged that this is a large *
fine, but argued that the false statements provided by the Respondent allowed him 1o advance his
career and enjoy the financial gain from ‘such advancement after obtaining licensure based on
fraudulent and deceptive representations, ;

J agree with the State’s consideration of the relevant factors. While the Respondent has had
no prior violations, the Board's investigation revealed multiple instances of deception which,
together, represent a troubling pattem of deception. In addition, the Respondent continues to offer .
explanations that strain credibility, rather than taking responsibility for his false misrepresentations.
Accordingly, I find the proposed $25,000.00 fine, to be paid before the Respondent may apply for
reinstatement after a one-year suspension, both fair and appropriate, COMAR 10,32,03.17A and G.

pROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

ERUE UO ee

I conclude as follows:
1. The Respondent fraudulently or deceptively obtained a license, in violation of

section 15-314(a)(1) of the Health Ocoupations Article;
