 

Application, 2015 Renewal Application and Crédentialing Application, and 2017 Renewal.
Application. Noting the Board’s responsibility to protect the public by evaluating the character

and fitness of applicants and licensees, the State argued that the Respondent compromised that

, a by concealing information and providing false résponses to questions. That‘he did so

over a period of three years, and on four different applications, reflects a troubling pattern ‘of
deliberate concealment that is inconsistent with the honesty required to maintain a license to,
practice medicine.

‘The Respondent disagreed with the State’s characterization of the applications he
submitted, arguing that he acted | in good faith at all times and reasonably believed that he’ hod
disclosed all information he was required to disclose. The Respondent also disputed the Board’s
conclusions regarding his employinent history, maintaining that he voluntarily quit the two /

positions from whith the Board claims he was: either terminated or resigned in lieu of

termination. He further contended that the 2014 criminal conviction was expunged. As he had

no intention to deceive and completed all epplications to the best of his knowledge and ability,
the Respondent argued that he did not violate the law and should not be subject to discipline.
Testimony ,

. Maureen Sammons, Intake Manager for the Board, testified on behalf of the State, She
explained that cases are referred to her unit if something i in the criminal history background
check “pops,” meaning that the background check reflécts any criminal history. In the

Respondent’s case, the first criminal history background check was Tun when he submitted his

. 2017 Renewal Application, as the law had been changed the prior yeat to require criminal history

’ background checks.. When the Respondent’s' criminal history background check yielded a

positive result; it was referred to her unit and she conducted a full investigation. “As part of that

investigation, » she gathered documentary evidence from courts in the relevant jurisdictions as

 
