Specifically, the State demonstrated the Respondent was convicted of criminal trespass in 4

February 2014 and sentenced to confinement and probation (State Ex, 7B), and he subsequently |

 

_ failed to disclose that information on his 2014 Reinstatement Application and his Credentialing ‘

 

Application. | (State Ex. 8C and 4B.) Both applications included questions to which the Respondent
clearly should have answered “yes,” as he was convicted of a criminal act and was sentenced to
confinement and probation. Neither application question excluded crimes for which an applicant

has been granted an h expungement, More significantly, the Respondent offered no evidence that
there was in fact any expungement of his 2014 criminal conviction. He also offered no evidence to ,
support his claim that he had a good faith basis for believing that such an expungement had

occurred.

/ Yam also persuaded that the Respondent was terminated from his position with

| that he resigned in lieu of termination ftom his position vii iii
Hospital, The Respondent testified that he resigned ion he was pressured fo
improperly prescribe pain; medications to patients. This contradicts the written account he provided
to the Board i in September 2015. (State Ex. 3.) In this written account, the Respondent refbrs to his

: termination from a: separate times, stating that he was “released on [his] third
week,” that he was “erminated,” and that he ‘was “terminated unjustly.” While his letter does allege
improper and inadequate training, as well as some dispute about whether several patients under the ”
Respondents care were given medication that was not prescribed to them, atno time does the

" Respondent state that he was pressured to prescribe pain medications that he was not permitted to
prescribe. Furthermore, the Respondent's letter dogs not claim that he resigned or voluntarily

separated from employment. The Respondent's account at the hearing of his purported voluntary

separation ion Es simply not credible.
