wrong place and then attempted to correct the error, In fact, the March 7, 2017 document does not
include a signature for the Respondent. On its face, the document does not include any verification
that it was presented to the Respondent: The January 4, 2017 document includes feedback from the

Respondent in the “Employee’s comments” portion of the form, but that portion of the form is left

blank on the March 7, 2017 document.

Nonetheless, these inregularities are minor, especially when weighed against the Respondent’s

own lack of credibility, The January 4, 2017 document clearly reflects a discussion the Respondent’s

supervisor had with him rogarding patient complaints, rudeness, attendance issues, and complaints
from colleagues.’ It includes his supervisor’s comments about the Respondent's responses during the
discussion, inchiding questions that be asked and his assertion that he did not have a record of

" tardiness. The Respondent articulated no nefarious motivation or rationale to support his implication.
that someone falsified tie January 4 2017 document. He offered no explanation or support for his
claim that the signature on the form was not his own.

In short, the Respondent's claizh that he had no 0 knowledge of complaints against him is not
credible, The Respondent’s lack of credibility undermines his assertion that he simply resigncd, and
that his resignation was not in lieu of termination, The documents from
Hospital consistently reflect its position that the Respondent resigned in lieu of termination; these ;
documents include the March 7, 2017 recommendation for termination, information provided to the
Division of Unemployment Insurance (State Ex. 6, p. 225), and the employer s personnel records
(State Ex, 6, pp. 226-228), Bven ifthe Respondent ‘was never presented with the March 7, 2017

‘written recommendation of termination, it is clear from the January 4, 2017 document that he was -
aware of his employer's concems, despite his claim to the contrary. Accordingly, conclude that -
the Respondent resigned in lieu of terfnination from his position vith Hospital,

and that this occurred in March 2017.

 
