 

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Ahmed Gbadamosi, P.A.-C.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the
charges will be treated as if proven.

l understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all

other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards, and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other
state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter
of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that
Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant
reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and
reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition for

reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an
individual whose license has been revoked.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to

 
