 

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(3)\(ii),
was disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority for an act that would be grounds for
disciplinary action in Maryland, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(21), and willfully made a
false representation when seeking or making application for licensure, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 15-314(a)(36). Panel A imposed a reprimand, prohibited her from prescribing and administering
Controlled Dangerous Substances until permitted to do so by the Texas Board, placed her on
probation for a minimum of two years, subject to certain terms and conditions, including
requirements that she pay a civil fine of $5,000.00 and take a Panel-approved course in ethics
within six months of the date of the Consent Order.

The Consent Order further stated:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before
a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine
upon the Respondentf. ]

Violation of January 29, 2019 Consent Order
On January 31, 2019, Board staff sent a letter with the Board-approved course list to Ms.
Kwakye. On March 12, 2019, Ms. Kwakye submitted documentation of CME credits that she

earned in Texas, but the CMEs were not on the Board-approved course list and were not approved
