 

charged Ms. Cecil with violating several grounds of the Maryland Physician Assistants Act: Md.
Code Health Occ. §15-314(a)(1) (fraudulently or deceptively obtains a license); (2) (fraudulently
or deceptively uses a license); (3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine); (11)
(willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of medicine); (27) (prescribes
drugs for illegal or illegitimate purposes); and (36) (willfully makes a false representation when
seeking or making application for licensure).

On September 10, 2015, Ms. Cecil entered into a Consent Order with Panel B to resolve
the July 1, 2015 charges.
Consent Order

In the Consent Order, Panel B concluded that Ms. Cecil violated all of the grounds with-
which she was charged. Panel B suspended Ms. Cecil’s physician assistant license for a
minimum period of eighteen months, retroactive to June 11, 2015, the date of the summary
suspension.’ Under the terms of the Consent Order, Ms. Cecil agreed that her license would
remain suspended until she fully and satisfactorily complied with several conditions, including
the requirement that she enroll in the MPRP and comply with all of the MPRP’s
recommendations.

The Consent Order also:

ORDERED that if the Respondent fails to comply with any of the terms or

conditions of probation, suspension, or this Consent Order, the Board or

Disciplinary Panel, in its discretion, after notice and an opportunity for a show

cause hearing before the Board or Disciplinary Panel if there is no genuine

dispute as to a material fact or an evidentiary hearing at the Office of

Administrative Hearings, may impose additional sanctions authorized under the

Medical Physician Assistants Act, including a reprimand, suspension, an

additional period of probation, revocation, and/or a monetary fine[.]

Ms. Cecil agreed and accepted to be bound by the Consent Order and its terms and conditions.

' The summary suspension was terminated as moot based on the resolution of the charges and the imposition of an
18-month suspension.
