Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Tasha M. Anderson, PA-C

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I acknowledge that I violated the terms of the Consent Order by practicing as a
physician assistant while my license was suspended. Additionally, I acknowledge that I
submitted a positive toxicology screen while enrolled in MPRP, in violation of my MPRP
participation agreement and the Consent Order. I acknowledge that the Consent Order
remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance
of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Order
as long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution for violating the Consent Order. I
acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be able to prove that
I violated the Consent Order by a preponderance of the evidence.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest any charges related to my violation of the Consent Order. In waiving
my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at
the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to a circuit court.

J understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in
any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose terms
and conditions in conformity with or in addition to those set forth in the Consent Order. I
further understand that if ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or
its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked. | also
understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my
professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel B or
its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
