Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Raelynn Torzone, PA-C

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), and that
this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, | agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice as a physician
assistant in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both
the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge
that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

~ Raelynn Torzone, PA-C

)
-.signature on F ile

\ J
