Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Raelynn Torzone, PA-C, License Number: C06111
Case Number: 2222-0049B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§15-312 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to permanently SURRENDER ny license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number C06111, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act’), Health Occ. §§ 15-101 et
seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the permanent surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is aPUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes aFINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
Apmil 6, 2022, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §14-5F-
29(a) (unlicensed practice of naturopathic medicine), §14-5F-30(a)(1) (misrepresenting to
the public that an individual is licensed to practice naturopathic medicine), and §15-
314(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. A copy of the charges
is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to physician assistant licensure in
Maryland, the charges will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving
my right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest
the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
