MPRP also cited Dr. Bailey’s termination as a patient by her physician due to non-compliance in
treatment, MPRP’s inability to meet with her on numerous occasions, and her delay, until June 9,
2017, in signing a practice cessation agreement that was sent to her by MPRP on May 30, 2017,
although MPRP sent her additional reminders by email and telephone.

MPRP notified the Board of Dr. Bailey’s discharge from the Program and emphasized its
serious concerns that she continued to self-prescribe and self-treat for the duration of her
participation with MPRP despite her disciplinary sanction by the Virginia Board for self-
prescribing. MPRP confirmed that Dr. Bailey’s self-prescribing had been explicitly and directly
addressed in MPRP’s multiple face-to-face meetings and other conversations with her, and that
she had acknowledged her understanding that she is prohibited from self-prescribing. MPRP’s
clinical team did not believe that “additional intervention would be successful. . .” and concluded
that Dr. Bailey’s “behavior indicates that she is continuing to minimize or being dishonest. . .”
Maryland: July 2017 Summary Suspension

Based on Dr. Bailey’s discharge and the serious concerns reported by MPRP, Panel B
summarily suspended Dr. Bailey’s medical license on July 17, 2017, and continued the Summary
Suspension after a post-deprivation hearing on July 27, 2017.

Maryland: September 27, 2017 Show Cause Hearing

On September 27, 2017, following the issuance of a Violation of Consent Order and
Notice to Show Cause by the Office of the Attorney General, Panel B conducted a show cause
hearing.° At the hearing, Dr. Bailey did not dispute that her MPRP Rehabilitation Agreement

required that she not self-prescribe and not self-treat. Nor did she dispute her violation of the

> The Show Cause hearing before Panel B on September 27, 2017 occurred before the conclusion of Dr. Bailey’s
criminal proceedings in Virginia Beach and before her guilty plea on October 23, 2017 to felony prescription fraud
and misdemeanor practicing without a valid medical license. These later-occurring events, therefore, were not
considered at the September 27, 2017 Show Cause hearing.

 
