has made since her 2017 guilty plea to prescription fraud. In addition to keeping up with
literature in the pediatric field, Dr. Bailey has obtained more than the requisite continuing
medical education credit hours. Her fulfillment of the conditions ordered by the Virginia Beach
court and recognition of the importance of addressing her health conditions and having a support
system are laudable. The Panel agrees with Dr. Bailey that there is no justification for calling in
prescriptions for herself under a fictitious name. Her recent statement that she never used
prescription pads to obtain her medication, however, does not mitigate the extremely serious
nature of her criminal offenses for prescription fraud.

In addition, the inconsistencies between Dr. Bailey’s initial answers to the Board’s
reinstatement questions in June 2023 and her most recent reply to the State’s summary of her
criminal and disciplinary history in September 2023, are also deeply concerning to the Panel, and
undermine her initial claims of rehabilitation and statements that she has taken responsibility for
her actions. Dr. Bailey’s license was revoked because of the deliberate nature of her crimes of
prescription fraud, which continued for years. Panel B was also concerned about her intentional
dishonesty in concealing material information regarding her criminal actions on her 2014
reinstatement application, and her non-compliance with the conditions necessary to ensure her
fitness to practice medicine safely, despite the Panel’s forbearance and the previous opportunities
granted to her in the 2016 Consent Order. While admitting her criminal and disciplinary
violations in her initial answers, Dr. Bailey relied extensively on her health conditions and a lack
of insurance not merely to explain, but to justify those violations in her later reply. In so doing,
she contradicted many of her previous admissions, distorted facts, disputed that she practiced
without a license, and repeatedly ignored, minimized, or attempted to justify the nature,

seriousness, and totality of her conduct.

 
