FINDINGS OF FACT
Because Panel B concludes that Dr. Newbold has defaulted and has not filed exceptions to
the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted from the allegations
of fact in the March 9, 2023 charges and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence:

1, The Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on
December 17, 1990, under License Number D41112. The Respondent was on
Probation? and his license was scheduled to expire on September 30, 2023.4

2. The Respondent is not board-certified in any medical specialty.

3. The Respondent previously owned and operated a medical practice with an
office located in Hagerstown, Maryland. The Respondent’s practice focused on
family medicine. He does not hold any hospital privileges.

4. The Respondent is currently employed as a physician at a State-run licensed
Intermediate Care Facility (ICF).

5. On or about July 21, 2022, the Board received a complaint from a former
patient of the Respondent (the “Patient”).> The complaint stated in part:

Appointment [with] Dr. Newbold on 5-17-22. Notice on [the] office
door saying [the] office was closed permanently. [The] Telephone
goes to voicemail stating staff would return calls. No calls have been
returned.

 

Dr. Newbold is my primary care physician for approximately 5
years treating me for High B.P., C.O.P.D and Vit. B12 deficiency.
B-12 shot [is] prescribed monthly. Totally out of albuterol for
breathing.

 

3 On February 16, 2023, the Respondent entered into a public Consent Order regarding Case # 2220-0127A. He was
reprimanded and placed on probation for a minimum of one (1) year subject to terms and conditions. The Respondent
also agreed to a permanent prohibition from prescribing and dispensing opioids and from certifying patients for the
medical use of cannabis.

* Dr. Newbold’s license expired on September 30, 2023. Pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-403(a), the Board retains
jurisdiction over Dr. Newbold because a license “may not lapse by operation of law while the individual is under
investigation or while charges are pending.”

* For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in this case are
not disclosed in this document, The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and health care facilities
referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.

4
