State summarizing Dr. Bailey’s criminal and disciplinary history and opposing the reinstatement
of her medical license. On September 8, 2023, Dr. Bailey sent a series of emails to Board staff,
including a written reply to the Administrative Prosecutor, and letters of endorsement and
support, most of which she had previously submitted.
Reply to the Administrative Prosecutor

In her September 8, 2023 written reply, Dr. Bailey highlighted specific health conditions
as reasons for her crimes of prescription fraud in Virginia and her disciplinary violations tn
Maryland. She stated that she called in prescriptions for certain CDS using a fictitious name in
Virginia in 2013 after she had surgery. Dr. Bailey also stated that her 2017 felony of calling in a
non-controlled substance refill for herself to a Virginia pharmacy under a fictitious name was
due to another health condition and her “irresponsibility” for a “lack of insurance and a primary
care physician.” While acknowledging that calling in prescriptions for herself with a fictitious
name was not justified, Dr. Bailey stated that she never used other doctors’ prescription pads to
obtain her medication. Regarding her false answers and failure to disclose her 2013 guilty pleas
for prescription fraud in Virginia on her 2014 Maryland reinstatement application, Dr. Bailey
maintained that she was already enrolled in a Virginia rehabilitation program when she “renewed
{her] Maryland license in 2016” and was “under the impression” that the Maryland Board was
therefore aware of her 2013 guilty pleas. She also based her failure to disclose her convictions to
the New York Board on her enrollment in the Virginia program and desperation to find work.

Dr. Bailey further claimed that she used an urgent care physician’s DEA number to
prescribe a CDS for a patient because the physician told her to do so and acknowledged that that
she “did not handle this situation appropriately.” She asserted that she does not remember being

informed of, or receiving, a practice cessation agreement from MPRP in June 2017. Other claims

 
