categories of attendance, relationship with colleagues, managing stress, and overall quality of
work. In general, the reports showed an increasing pattern of poor attendance and punctuality by
Dr. Bailey, deteriorating relationships with colleagues, and declining quality of work, including
specific incidents of being absent from the pediatric office for periods of time without informing
staff, failing to document her clinical activity in patients’ charts, and failing to answer about a
dozen calls during the night when she was “on-call.” A May 2017 report described Dr. Bailey's
“decreasing reliability, not completing work on time, leaving without notifying anyone, and a
change in relationship with staff and patients.” The pediatric practice terminated Dr. Bailey's
employment based on its concerns about her overall behavior in the practice, and concerns about
her arrest in Virginia.

Subsequent Maryland Board Proceedings

In her written response to the Board, Dr. Bailey stated that she did not realize until after
she had completed the ethics course that self-prescribing with any other name than her own
“would get [her] into trouble.” She also stated that she wrote the prescriptions for herself to
“continue my therapy with medications previously prescribed to me for [certain] . . . diagnosed
conditions.*” In a telephone Board interview under oath on July 3, 2017, Dr. Bailey admitted to
self-prescribing and refilling her medications for the past ten years. She conceded that she had no
good explanation for self-prescribing while enrolled in MPRP and that she knew using a
fictitious name would be illegal.

On June 12, 2017, MPRP notified Dr. Bailey in writing that she was being discharged
from MPRP “for cause.” The most critical concern cited by MPRP was Dr. Bailey’s admission in
a phone call, on May 19, 2017, that she had been self-prescribing for the duration of her
participation in MPRP since September 2016, in violation of her Rehabilitation Agreement.

* The specific diagnoses have been omitted in this Order.

 
