Most perplexing to the Panel is Dr. Bailey’s reliance on her Maryland license as a pretext
for her claim that she does not understand “at all” how she could be charged with practicing
without a license. She pleaded guilty to practicing without a. valid license in Virginia, not in
Maryland. In her reply, Dr. Bailey blurs the distinction between her Maryland medical license,
which was in effect in May 2017, and her Virginia license, which was suspended in 2016. As a
highly educated, intelligent physician with knowledge of the formal criminal charges issued in
Virginia on May 11, 2017, for felony prescription fraud and misdemeanor practicing without a
valid medical license, Dr. Bailey’s purported ignorance of the latter charge is not only
implausible, but utterly inconsistent with the Plea Agreement and Stipulation of Facts that she
signed on October 23, 2017. In her Plea Agreement, Dr. Bailey pleaded guilty to both charges,
and agreed that she entered her guilty plea because she was, in fact, guilty. The Stipulation of
Facts confirms that Dr. Bailey identified herself to the pharmacist as a pediatric doctor practicing
in both Maryland and Virginia. When advised by detectives that she was not permitted to
prescribe in Virginia because of her suspended license, she said she thought she could call in
prescriptions as long as they were not CDS. Dr. Bailey does not address her intentionally false
statements to the Virginia pharmacist that she could not remember her DEA number and later
telling detectives that she did not have one.

Equally troubling to the Panel are the contradictions between Dr. Bailey's September
2023 statements and her prior June 2023 admissions that (1) she failed to disclose her 2013
guilty pleas for prescription fraud in Virginia on her 2014 Maryland reinstatement application;
and (2) she gave “fraudulent answers to questions” on her New York license renewal application.
In her reply, she downplayed responsibility for her false “NO” answers and maintained that both

boards must have already known of her guilty pleas because of her enrollment in a Virginia

15
