Virginia Beach and her compliance with evaluations ordered by the Court. The Board further
inquired about her employment while her license was revoked and her employment prospects if
her license is reinstated. On June 15, 2023, the Board received written answers from Dr. Bailey.
Answers to Reinstatement Questions

Regarding Question 1, Dr. Bailey admitted that she violated the conditions of her 2016
Consent Order requiring compliance with MPRP; self-prescribed refill medications under a
fictitious name while enrolled in MPRP, actions that resulted in violations of her agreement and
termination from the program; was terminated from treatment by her physician; and failed to
disclose her 2013 guilty pleas for prescription fraud in Virginia in her 2014 Maryland
reinstatement application. She also admitted that she gave ‘fraudulent answers to questions” on
her New York license renewal application.

In response to Question 2, Dr. Bailey stated that she understood the Board’s concerns to
be whether she understands the severity of her conduct that caused the loss of her license, is
completely rehabilitated, is emotionally and psychologically stable with support systems in place
for her emotional and professional well-being, has continued in counseling to maintain stability,
and what she has done to stabilize her support systems to prevent relapse.

With respect to Questions 3 and 4 and her current treatment for health conditions, Dr.
Bailey again attached the written addendum she had provided with her application describing her
personal losses, financial stressors, and her health diagnoses at the time her criminal violations
occurred. Dr. Bailey attributed her self-prescribing and calling in refills of various prescriptions
in a fictitious name to these factors, as well as bad decisions, flawed thinking, and a lack of
health insurance. According to Dr. Bailey, she has since reflected on and taken ownership of her

actions, has changed, and learned from her mistakes based on therapy and insight she has gained

10

 
