by Dr. Bailey in her reply include that (1) MPRP statements of her non-compliance were unfair;
(2) and all evaluations throughout her employment at a pediatric office were excellent before her
employment termination, and she “feel(s)” that a final negative performance evaluation
concerning her unreliability and behavior was “written hastily” to protect the pediatric practice
against criticism after their knowledge of her Virginia 2017 arrest. With respect to practicing
without a valid license, Dr. Bailey claimed that she does not “understand this charge at all”
because she had a Maryland license in good standing when she worked at the pediatric practice
and until she was charged [in Virginia] in May of 2017. She also stated that she has not worked
as a physician in 6 years because she does not have a license, and “to [her] recollection,” she told
the Virginia pharmacist that she had a license in Maryland, not in Virginia.

IV. CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION

The reinstatement of an individual’s license after revocation is a discretionary decision by
a disciplinary panel. Health Occ. § 14-409; see Oltman v. Maryland State Board of Physicians,
182 Md. App. 65, 78 (2008). The Panel must consider whether post-disciplinary reinstatement is
in the interest of the health and welfare of the general public and consistent with the best interest
of the profession. COMAR 10.32.02.06B(7). If a disciplinary panel chooses not to reinstate the
petitioner’s license, the “disciplinary panel decision denying reinstatement may set out when, if
ever, a subsequent petition may be submitted.” COMAR 10.32.02.06B(8).

The Panel is sympathetic to the personal losses experienced by Dr. Bailey and commends
her for the efforts she has undertaken since her revocation to overcome challenges and address
multiple difficulties and stressors in her life. The Panel has considered the medical reports,
recommendations, character attestations, and letters from health care providers, friends, and

acquaintances that Dr. Bailey submitted to support her application and credits the progress she

 
