degree, which made him a continuing threat to cause serious harm, requiring the order for
summary suspension.?

The Panel finds that the ALJ placed far too much weight on the lack of additional reports
of misconduct occurring after the Letter of Reprimand, especially because the ALJ did not take
into account that the Hospital was disinclined to forcefully act on employee complaints brought
to its attention against the Respondent. It was only after allegations against the Respondent’s
conduct became a lawsuit, filed by Complainant 2 in circuit court against the Respondent and the
Hospital, that the Hospital moved to address his behavior. Complainant 1 thought that the
Hospital! did not take her complaints against the Respondent seriously. (T. 39-40.) This was also
expressed by Complainant 2. (T. 250.) Individual 4 did not believe her concerns about the
Respondent were properly handled by the Hospital’s perioperative director. Individual 5
reported the Respondent’s behavior to the charge nurse, and she testified, “where it went from
there, I don’t know.” (Ex. 15 at 36.) Individual 5 complained to the Hospital about the
Respondent, and she “was pretty much told to — to shut up and leave it alone . . . that there was
nothing we could do to — to really fix the situation at hand.” (Ex. 15 at 31.) And it is most likely
that the Hospital’s lenient handling of the Respondent imparted upon the Hospital employees that
the Hospital would not provide protection against the Respondent, further discouraging

complaints against him. In sum, the environment at, and lack of strong action by, the Hospital

> The Panel also certainly does not accept the ALJ’s statement that a dangerous situation may not
have ever existed. The ALJ wrote, “There was no evidence before the Board that a dangerous
situation, if one ever existed, continued at the time of the Order for Summary Suspension. (PD at
13) (italics added). There, however, were three eyewitnesses, at least, to Respondent slapping
the buttocks of Patient 1 while she was anesthetized. Patient 1 was slapped on her buttocks for
no medical reason. When the Respondent attempted to have a hospital employee touch his penis,
this was actual harm. The Panel does not accept the ALJ’s suggestion that there may never have
been a danger. There already was serious actual harm with actual victims.

20
