rear end and dancing around and...singing the butt song... ‘Baby’s Got
Back’, or something like that.”

b. He observed the Respondent constantly hugging staff, massaging their
necks, and asking them about their sex lives.

 

20. Board staff interviewed other current or former colleagues of the Respondent
who corroborated the Respondent’s reputation for being touchy with staff

members, and/or making inappropriate comments to staff members.

The Respondent

21.On or about May 21, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
the Respondent. In the interview, the Respondent stated:

a. He would typically greet staff when he arrived at the O.R. by touching
their cap or their neck and expected that staff would be comfortable
expressing their discomfort if they were so inclined.

b. There was non-sexual touching from both sides in his interactions with
Complainant |. He denied making unprofessional comments toward her
or telling her to put any surgical instruments into her mouth.

c. He acknowledged touching Complainant 2’s hands and neck at her
request because “touch is a calming thing.” He stated that none of his
comments to Complainant 2 were meant in a sexual way, and if they
talked about sex, it was primarily in the context of her pregnancy.

d. Complainant 2 asked him to examine her for joint dysfunction and he did
so to be courteous but will not ever do so again. He took her into a room
to examine her because it was not appropriate to do it in the hallway. He
asked her to loosen her waistband and pull it down a little bit. Afterwards,
Complainant 2 seemed to be thankful, not offended.

e. He denied pulling Individual 4 into an empty office and trying to make
her touch his erection.

f. In April 2017 he did not slap the patient’s buttocks but was illustrating to
staff that they had placed a frame in an incorrect position. “I said look,
the buttock tissue moves like this...you have to touch the tissue...it’s
moving here. Here it’s not moving.” He denied making any inappropriate
comments about the patient’s body.

 

11
