was held four days after the first. At the second interview, the Respondent provided the
following testimony:

The, other person was [Individual 4] and [Individual 4], you know,
first of all, the allegation, never happened, never, I didn’t understand that
whole thing at all, but there is more to [Individual 4] that’s very
important, again, for context.

[Individual 4], I, I would bring coffee to [Individual 4]. I didn’t
know what kind of coffee she liked, you know, and people are very
particular about their coffee, so [Individual 4] would tell me what coffee
she wanted. This isn’t something where I’m forcing coffee on someone.

And that sort of sparked a friendly relationship at the hospital and that
friendly relationship morphed into a romantic relationship outside of the
hospital.

And on one occasion she drove to my administrative office, which is
about a mile or so away from the hospital, after hours, specifically to
have an encounter with me. She drove her own car, you know, I wasn’t
there with her.

And, and that lasted a very short time, but the reason that it ended was
strictly on ~ I ended it. And the reason it ended was because she made a
demand for money to me and that, you know, freaked me out. I was
extremely concerned, obviously, because there was no talk of that at all.

And obviously it is an implied threat to me, and so, and so that’s how
it ended.

a ee

Q. But you had a sexual relationship with her?

[The Respondent] A. We had a romantic relationship, yes.

. Okay. And when you say romantic, was there sexual intercourse?
. Well, yes, there was.

Okay.

. The one time.

* * *

. Mm-hmm. And how did she end up coming to the office?

. Oh, I, probably I invited her there.

>O Pore

(State’s Ex. 20, T. 6-10.) The Respondent then said there was no specific amount of money that
was requested by Individual 4. The Respondent then testified that he communicated with
Individual 4 by phone, by text, and by Snapchat. Later in the interview, the discussion turned
back to the first interview when he denied knowing who Individual 4 was:

[BOARD COMPLIANCE ANALYST]: I guess you’re talking about
someone that you had sex with that threatened you and we, you know,

14
