 

4. The pertinent events in this matter took place at a hospital (the “Hospital”), which
is located in Maryland, and at the Respondent’s private practice office, which was also in
Maryland. And the pertinent events involved employees and medical professionals, who worked
at the Hospital, as well as patients of the Hospital. The Respondent performed neurological
surgical procedures in an operating room (“OR”) at the Hospital. Personnel in the OR during his
surgeries typically included an anesthesiologist or a certified registered nurse anesthetist, a surgical
nurse, a physician assistant, an OR nurse, a circulating nurse, a surgical technologist, a medical
device manufacturer’s representative, and a neuromonitoring technician.

Complaint No. 1, filed by Complainant 1

5. Complainant 1, a woman, is a veteran surgical nurse, who was employed by the
Hospital from May 2004 to October 2018. During certain operations, the Respondent used the
Medtronic Stealth surgical navigation system. This high-tech system enables a surgeon to
precisely track the location of surgical instruments throughout the procedure. A key component
of the Stealth system is a reference frame that holds several gumball-sized balls or spheres coated
with a reflective, silver-colored surface (“Medtronic balls”). At the end of the procedure, the
Medtronic balls can be detached from the frame for either sterilization and reuse or disposal.

6. In or around 2013, after an operation performed by the Respondent at the Hospital
was completed and the patient was still anesthetized and asleep, Medtronic balls detached from
the reference frame, fell to the floor, and rolled. Several people were in the OR at the time,

including the Respondent, a manufacturer’s representative, one or two x-ray techs, and nurses,

4 This decision uses, where possible, generic terms and names for medical facilities and witnesses
in order to maintain confidentiality and privacy for the witnesses and patients involved in this
matter.
