 

 

A. There are plenty of people in the, believe it or not, in the O.R.
I wouldn’t be able to tell you their whole name frequently.

Q. But you had a sexual relationship with her?

A. We had a romantic relationship, yes.

Q. Okay. And when you say romantic, was there sexual

intercourse?
A. Well, yes, there was.
Q. Okay.

A. The one time.

The Respondent further testified at the second interview that he communicated with
Individual 4 by text and telephone. He then explained that, at the first interview, “it’s not that I
didn’t remember, it’s that I couldn’t, I have to put some type of coherent thing together for you
guys.” The ALJ found that this “response did not reflect positively on his credibility.” The
Respondent also said at the second interview, “So, yeah, this isn’t like I had forgot this person.”
The Respondent also told the investigators that he possessed a topless selfie of Individual 4 which
he said he obtained by Individual 4 sending it to him.

The Respondent's change from denying knowing a person to testifying that: (1) he had a
sexual relationship with that person, (2) who subsequently “freaked [him] out” when that person
threatened him by demanding an unspecified amount of money, and (3) that he kept a topless selfie
of that person, demonstrates the Respondent’s lack of credibility. The Respondent’s statements
concerning Individual 4 in the two interviews severely damaged his credibility. The record does
not support the Respondent’s testimony that the Respondent had a sexual relationship with
Individual 4 or that Individual 4 demanded money from the Respondent or that Individual 4 sent
the topless selfie to the Respondent.!!

D. Conclusion — Panel’s Credibility Determination of Respondent

"! Based on the testimony of Individual 4 and the inconsistent testimony of the Respondent, the
Panel finds that Individual 4 sent the topless selfie to another physician at the Hospital with whom
she had a flirtatious relationship and that this physician provided the Respondent with the photo.

27
