 

she was fearful of losing her job if she made a report against the Respondent. Complainant 2
testified,

On multiple occasions Dr. Hugo Benalcazar would make comments

to me in regards to other staff members. Specifically [Individual 5]

coming in to the room to give [Individual 8] a lunch break. He

would make comments that he could get her fired. That he knew

management very well. That he knew my supervisors very well. He

would say these things to me at the surgical field and make threats

that she wouldn’t be there the next day. That he had that power to

do so. So, when all of this was occurring ] was fearful and scared

to lose my job. That’s why I didn’t report it at the time.
When Complainant 1 complained to the Hospital’s director of perioperative services, Complainant
1 did not feel “she took it very seriously.” When the Respondent was admonished by the Hospital,
Complainant 1, who was still working at the Hospital, did not know anything about it. After the
Respondent slapped the buttocks of the patient in the OR, Individual 5 told the charge nurse, then
heard nothing further about the matter. Individual 5 testified that the charge nurse told Individual
5 that there would probably be nothing done about it. Individual 9 testified that he did not report
the Respondent’s slapping of the anesthetized patient, because “I don’t know how that would have
affected my job.”

Despite complaints, the Respondent’s misconduct persisted for years, and Hospital
employees were not able to discern any consequences for the Respondent. Under these conditions,
the Panel is not persuaded by the lack of reports for misconduct occurring after the Respondent
was reprimanded by the Hospital that the Respondent poses no real threat.

The Respondent engaged in egregious conduct over the course of years and had numerous
victims. The victims were both medical professionals and patients, and the patients were especially

vulnerable. The Panel has also considered that the Respondent does not have a prior disciplinary

record and that Respondent’s license has been summarily suspended since July 2, 2021. The Panel

50

 
