Complaint No. 2, filed by Complainant 2 (Respondent’s Slapping
an Anesthetized Patient’s Buttocks before Surgery in the OR)

13. Complainant 2, a female surgical technologist, began working at the Hospital in
2015, She was responsible for assuring that instruments and equipment were. at hand in the OR
for the surgeon and that the OR was sterile for the safety of the patient and the surgical team.

14. In or about April 2017, a female patient was brought into the Respondent’s OR for
a lumbar fusion. The patient was moved onto a Jackson table, a specialized table used for prone
surgical procedures. The patient’s buttocks were up in the air and her back was exposed.
Individual 9, the Respondent’s physician assistant at the time, taped down the patient’s buttocks
to expose the surgery area. The patient was already prepped for surgery and was totally
unconscious from anesthesia.

15. Individual 9 was scrubbed and gowned, ready to drape the patient, when the
Respondent entered the OR. The Respondent saw that the patient was taped down but indicated
he did not like the way the patient was taped.

16. The Respondent went over and pulled tape off the patient. The Respondent looked
at the patient, whose buttocks had folded back over onto the lumbar area. The Respondent slapped*
the patient’s buttocks with a horizontal wrist movement of one hand, causing the patient’s buttocks

to jiggle. The Respondent’s hand was in a vertical position with the fingers extended but not

 

spread apart. His hand moved horizontally from his wrist. He slapped only one cheek of the

patient’s buttocks. As the Respondent slapped the patient’s buttocks, the Respondent said, “Baby’s

5 The witnesses (Complainant 2, Individual 5, and Individual 9) referred to the Respondent’s action
as both a slap and a smack, and slap and smack were used interchangeably. The Panel does not
find any inconsistency. The Panel finds that both “slap” and “smack” accurately describe the
Respondent’s action. However, unless smack is used in a quotation, this decision refers to the slap
or smack as a “slap.”
