and one of those employees stated that the Respondent refused to let go “even when she asked
him to.” The report further stated that Complainant 2 had not previously reported incidents of
inappropriate behavior to the Human Resources department because “she feared losing her job or
other repercussions.” The report also mentioned that, in addition to Complainant 2, other
employees interviewed said that the Hospital O.R. had a culture that was inhospitable to
complaints against physicians.
36. On March 6, 2019, the Hospital issued the Respondent a Letter of Reprimand.
The Letter of Reprimand stated:
Based on the investigation, the Ad Hoc Committee, Performance
Improvement Committee, and Medical Executive Committee concluded
that you had behaved inappropriately towards members of the Hospital
staff by inappropriate touching female employees and by making
inappropriate comments of a sexual nature to female employees. The
Committees felt that you lacked an appreciation for how your behavior
was perceived and exercised extremely poor judgment in your lack of
appreciation for appropriate boundaries of professional behavior. Your
behavior and words were seriously inappropriate.
The Hospital required the Respondent to attend a course in Professional Boundaries and advised
the Respondent that his behavior would be “monitored. However, any further reports of this type
of unacceptable behavior, at any time in the future, would be reviewed for additional disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of medical staff appointment and/or clinical privileges.”
The Letter of Reprimand further stated that the Letter of Reprimand “will not be reported to the
Maryland Board of Physicians” and that “this action does not constitute grounds for a hearing.”
37. On August 30, 2020, the Board received a complaint from Complainant ! (dated
August 25, 2020). In her complaint, Complainant 1 alleged that, when she worked with the
Respondent at the Hospital, the Respondent behaved inappropriately, both verbally and

physically, with Complainant 1 and other female staff members.

10
