A male Medtronic sales representative testified that he hugged the Respondent, but he explained
that he, not the Respondent, initiated their hugs.

The Respondent also argues that “nothing in the ALJ’s opinion addressed the obvious bias
of the witness toward the Respondent.” However, the ALJ found, “[Individual 6]’s testimony and
demeanor revealed she feels a rather strong antipathy toward the Respondent.” The ALJ,
nonetheless, found her testimony credible. The Panel, also, finds her testimony credible. The
Respondent’s touching of Individual 6 is consistent with the Respondent’s behavior at the
Hospital. Individual 9 was asked to describe what some of the Respondent’s touching might look
like and testified, “Just like massage type thing on the shoulders.”

Tt does appear that Individual 6 does harbor antipathy toward the Respondent, but that by
itself does not significantly impair her credibility. It should come as‘no surprise that victims might
harbor negative feeling toward those who mistreated them. Nor does her antipathy suggest that
the Respondent's touching was benign. The exception is denied. The Respondents touching of
Individual 6’s shoulders as if to give her a massage on three occasions, with no consent and with
clear indications that it was unwanted, constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). See also Banks, 354 Mad. at 62.

E. Individual 1

Individual 11 worked for 10 months at the Hospital, from November 2017 through August
2018, where she worked as a circulating nurse in the OR. One day, while in the OR at the Hospital,
toward the end of the case, while the patient was still also in the OR, Individual 11 was filling out
paperwork concerning a neck/spine operation. Individual 11 testified that she was at a counter in
the OR completing paperwork and the Respondent approached her from. behind and “tickled” her

sides, which scared her. The Respondent said, “I guess you didn’t like that?” Individual 11 made

39

/

 
