Individual 9 testified that he observed the Respondent slap the patient. According to
Individual 9, the Respondent “just sort of was walking around and he slapped it... .” Individual
9 also said that the Respondent slapped the patient’s buttocks while saying “baby’s got back” and
moving in a rhythmic manner. Individual 9 also said that he was “surprised” because “I’ve never
seen anybody do that in the operating room before.” When asked whether the Respondent gave
him any medical reason for slapping the patient’s buttocks, Individual 9 testified, “No.”

Complainant 2 testified that the Respondent “proceeded to smack his patient’s butt. All
the while laughing like it was a joke. Like giggling. He seemed very happy. He was very happy
about it.” Complainant 2 further testified, “I remember looking at [Individual 5]. And I was in
shock. I could not even believe what had transpired. That he would do such a thing to his patient

While the three witnesses for the State who testified to the slapping did have some
differences in certain details, those differences were relatively peripheral. At the core, their
statements were essentially the same. Each of the three witnesses testified that he or she saw the
Respondent slap the patient’s buttocks, that they were shocked or surprised that the Respondent
slapped the patient, and none of these three testified that the Respondent provided a medical reason
behind it, and they certainly did not testify that the Respondent gave a medical lesson to them that
related to him slapping or touching the patient’s buttocks. In contrast to the Respondent’s
testimony, none of the three testified that they were “shocked” because the Respondent asked
Individual 9 to remove the tape. To a major extent, each of these three witnesses corroborated
each other, while the Respondent’s testimony was in a different realm. Based upon the testimony
of Complainant 2 and Individuals 5 and 9, the Panel finds that the Respondent’s testimony on this

incident was false.

24
