Q. Now, just to clarify, do you know how Dr. Benalcazar would have
come into possession of that picture of you?
[Individual 4] A. Like I said, the only reasonable explanation I can
come up with is that someone else showed him, gave it to him. I’m not —
that’s the only reasonable explanation I have.
(T. 371-72.)
The Panel does not find the Respondent’s testimony regarding Individual 4 trustworthy.
When he was initially interviewed by the Board compliance analysts, he denied even knowing
who Individual 4 was. When he was interviewed the second time, he explained that he had not
forgotten who Individual 4 was when he was asked about her in the first interview, but he was
not about to “put some kind of coherent thing together.” He further said, “So, yeah, this isn’t like
I had forgot this person, but it is something where if I started talking at that moment, I don’t
think I could have put, put two and two together. And I didn’t want to do that, so.” The Panel
finds that the Respondent simply lied to the Board compliance analysts. At first, he denied even
knowing who she was, and then four days later he stated that he had a romantic relationship with
her, had sex with her, that she threatened him for money, and that he has a racy photograph of
her. The extent to which he deliberately gave false statements to the Board compliance analysts
indicates that his statements are not reliable. The Panel finds that the Respondent is not credible.
The evidence in this case does not indicate that he had sexual intercourse with Individual 4, does
not indicate that she demanded money from him, and does not indicate that she sent him the racy
photograph. The Panel cannot find that Individual 4 fabricated information when she was
interviewed or testified before the ALJ. In determining which of these two individuals the Panel
relies upon, the only reasonable determination is to believe Individual 4 over the Respondent.

The Panel finds Individual 4’s testimony credible.

I. EXCEPTIONS

16
