Hugo Benalcazar, M.D.

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4,. Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Hugo Benalcazar, M.D.
License Number: D56356
Case Number: 7723-0083

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. ("Health Occ.") §14-403
(2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. License Number D56356, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the "Act"), Health
Occ. §§ 14-401 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and, upon
Disciplinary Panel B's ("Panel B") acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the "Board").

I acknowledge that, on July 2, 2021, Panel B summarily suspended my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland and issued charges based on an investigation that determined
that I engaged in a pattern of unprofessional conduct that included, but was not limited to, sexual
harassment of hospital staff, both verbal and physical, sexual propositioning, and unconsented-to
physical contact of at least one patient. Following an evidentiary hearing at the Office of
Administrative Hearings ("OAH"), and an exceptions hearing, Panel B issued a Final Decision
and Order on Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, on August 1, 2022,
which affirmed the July 2, 2021 summary suspension, and ordered that my license to practice
medicine in Maryland remain suspended.

T acknowledge that, on August 27, 2021, the Board issued Amended Charges that charged
me with immoral conduct in the practice of medicine, unprofessional conduct in the practice of
