The Respondent argues on exceptions that the ALJ erred, arguing that Complainant’! was
biased based upon her friendship with Complainant 2, that Complainants 1 and 2 conspired
together, and that Complainant 1 was not credible for changing the date on the occurrence of the
Medtronic/scrub shirt incidents from 2008 to 2013. The Respondent further contends that the ALJ
erroneously credited Complainant 1’s testimony “despite the legion of inconsistencies, untruths,
and admitted half-truths.”

There are a few parts of Complainant 1’s testimony that the Panel had to wrestle with. But
mostly, like the ALJ, the Panel credits Complainant 1’s testimony. The Panel is impressed that
Complainant 1 testified that she was at fault in an incident that occurred in the OR in which
Complainant 1 had an outburst and left the OR. The ALJ wrote, “[Complainant 1] admitted having
an unprofessional outburst in the OR, for which she apologized to the Respondent.” The
Respondent chastised Complainant 1 for leaving the OR. The details of the incident were highly
personal to Complainant 1, nonetheless, Complainant 1 forthrightly explained the incident at the
ALJ hearing, including that she apologized to the Respondent. The Panel finds that Complainant
1’s testimony on this incident buttressed her credibility. That being said, the reliability of her
testimony needed to be carefully evaluated, including when the Medtronic balls/scrub shirt
incidents occurred.

Complainant 1’s complaint to the Board is dated August 25, 2020, and was received by the
Board on August 30, 2020. Complainant 1 wrote in the complaint that the Medtronic balls/scrub
shirt incidents took place in 2008. The ALJ found, however, that the incidents took place in 2013.
Complainant 1 met with the director of perioperative services to discuss these incidents. The
director of perioperative services started working at the Hospital in 2012 and testified that

Complainant 1 met with her shortly after Complainant | said the incidents occurred, which was in

31
