Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Hugo Benalcazar
Letter of Surrender

medicine, and violations of the sexual misconduct regulations. Following an evidentiary hearing
at OAH and exceptions hearing, Panel B issued a Final Decision and Order on Amended Charges,

On May 18, 2023, when Panel B concluded that I was guilty of immoral and unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of | 4-404(a)(3 )(i) and (ii), and ordered that the
summary suspension, issued on July 2, 2021, and affirmed in a Final Decision and Order on August
1, 2022, be terminated as moot upon the reinstatement of my expired license. Additionally, I was
reprimanded; my license to practice medicine in Maryland was suspended for a minimum period
of one (I) year, commencing when my Maryland medical license was reinstated;! ordered that I
enroll in and comply with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP"); and
required me to complete courses in boundaries and professionalism within six (6) months. A copy
of the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, Final Decision and Order
on Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine, and Final Decision and Order
on Amended Charges are attached and incorporated by reference as Attachments 1, 2 and 3.

I acknowledge that, on February 2, 2024, MPRP closed my case for cause, based on my
refusal to comply and cooperate with their referrals, rules and requirements.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to
avoid prosecution for failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Final Decision and
Order on Amended Charges. I acknowledge that the Final Decision and Order on Amended
Charges will remain and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon
acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the
Final Decision and Order on Amended Charges as long as I do not have or possess an active
medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for refusing to comply with the
terms and conditions of the Final Decision and Order on Amended Charges. I do not wish to contest
these allegations of refusal to comply. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, 1 am
waiving my right to contest any charges of refusal to comply that would issue from Panel B's
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing, at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that, in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of Surrender
may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.§§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.
& 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

! The Respondent's license was reinstated as suspended on November 2, 2023.

 
