 

experience’ at the hospital as ‘Excellent.’” The Panel does not give any significant weight to the
“Excellent” rating. There is no indication from this standard follow-up telephone call that the
caller from the Hospital would appear to Individual 10 to be an optimal candidate for addressing
the Respondent touching her vagina, if she were to disclose his behavior to the Hospital, which
she did not. In any case, the Hospital caller was focused on the customary potential surgical
complications that could be evident the day after an operation, as opposed to focusing on sexual
assault by a surgeon. The caller specifically asked about nausea, a sore throat, hoarseness, pain,
bleeding, drainage, the IV site, medication effectiveness, surgery preparation, and post-op
instructions. It is likely that, while Individual 10 was in the middle of her spinal surgeries, she
wanted the medical providers focused strictly on the medical issues, and not distracted by serious
and sensitive allegations against one of their colleagues. The “Excellent” rating adds insignificant
value with respect to weighing Individual 10’s allegations and testimony.

The ALJ found Individual 10 credible, stating, “I found [Individual 10]’s testimonial
demeanor very credible. Her answers were clear and forthright. She did not exaggerate or
embellish. She showed what I perceived as genuine emotion as she described a painful memory.”
The Panel accepts the ALJ’s credibility determination on Individual 10.

The ALJ found that the Respondent’s misconduct concerning Individual 10 constitutes
immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Panel agrees with these
conclusions. The Respondent’s exceptions with respect to Individual 10 are denied. The
Respondent is guilty of immoral conduct in the practice of medicine and unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), for saying to

Individual 10 how “nice” her “ass” was and for grabbing Individual 10’s breasts and touching her

37
