 

reasoning for mostly accepting and crediting Complainant 2’s testimony included the testimony of
other witnesses who corroborated her testimony.

Certain details of Complainant 2’s testimony were not accepted by the ALJ, but overall
Complainant 2’s testimony was largely accepted. In terms of the details that the ALJ found
implausible, Complainant 2, according to the ALJ, testified that she did not understand that the
Demand Letter was for the purpose of extracting money from the Respondent. The ALI explained,
after finding this implausible, that he was not applying the maxim “Falsus in uno, falsus in
omnibus” (“False in one thing, false in everything”). The Panel assumes the ALJ was referring to
Complainant 2’s testimony in which she stated, “I did not realize that the letter was implying that
I was trying to get money from Dr. Benalcazar in any way.” At first glance, without context, this
statement by Complainant 2 certainly does seem to indicate that she did not know that, through
the Demand Letter, she was asking for money in exchange for not reporting him to various
authorities. But, when asked to confirm that she did not realize that the Demand Letter was seeking
five million dollars from the Respondent, Complainant 2 responded, “I did not expect that.” In
context, Complainant 2’s testimony on this issue appears to the Panel to mean that Complainant 2
did not expect that her obtaining legal representation would result in her asking for money.
Complainant 2 explained that she wanted to report the Respondent’s conduct to the Board but “I
had a problem because I did not want to lose my job.” Thus, before reporting to the Board, she
hired an attorney. Complainant 2 further explained that the strategy for dealing with the
Respondent was developed by her attorney. It also appears to the Panel that, at this stage in her
testimony, Complainant 2 was being a bit evasive in her responses. In any case, it is obvious that
Complainant 2 did know, from at least having read the Demand Letter prior to it being sent to the

Respondent, that she was asking for money. Complainant 2 could have been more responsive, or

44
