 

:

the beginning of January 2013 or late December 2012. The Respondent argues that the five-year
difference is significant because, according to Complainant 1, the incident affected their
interactions, and thus, according to the Respondent, a five-year discrepancy is difficult to
harmonize with such a significant effect.

The Panel agrees with the ALJ that the five-year discrepancy did not significantly impair
Complainant 1’s credibility, essentially because the evidence of the incident was sufficiently
established and did occur a long time ago (making it more difficult to pinpoint when it took place).
Complainant 1 met with the director of perioperative services close to the time that the incident
occurred to complain about the incidents.

In her complaint to the Board, Complainant 1 alleged that Respondent touched her skin at
the V-neck of her scrub shirt. Complainant | initially said when interviewed that when he put a
hand on her chest one of his fingers definitely touched one of her breasts. Later in the interview,
she said that his touch included the cleavage area but not on a breast. At the hearing, she said that
he may have touched one of her breasts. Additionally, the Respondent testified.that he did touch
her chest, although denying that he touched her breast. The Respondent testified that Complainant
1 asked him to massage her chest. The Respondent also testified that his touching of Complainant
1’s upper chest was discussed with the director of perioperative services at their meeting. Like the
ALJ, the Panel does not accept that Complainant 1 asked the Respondent to massage her chest.
The evidence indicates that Complainant 1 was not comfortable with the Respondent touching her,
not even for light touches on the back. The Panel does not find, though, that the Respondent
touched her breast.

Complainant | testified that the Respondent commented on her underwear “seven” times.

Complainant 1 said that the Respondent’s comments included that he liked the color of her

32
