 

 

summarily suspended. The Respondent asserts that his conduct did not have “the potential to or
actually cause harm to any patient.” The record does not support the Respondent’s assertion.
There were two patients who suffered actual harm by having sexualized body parts intentionally
touched by the Respondent without their consent. These patients were highly vulnerable. In fact,
one of the patients was anesthetized at the time. The other patient testified that she did not address
the Respondent’s conduct with him because:
I didn’t want to have to talk to him. My pain went away. He

fixed my back but personally I did not want to have any contact with

him or talk to him after that and I didn’t want anyone to know what

happened because I felt ashamed that it happened.
Moreover, the Respondent’s disruptive conduct distracted staff from focusing on patient care and
degraded the teamwork approach that is necessary for the effective delivery of health care as he
antagonized, demeaned, shocked, and frightened employees of the Hospital.

The Respondent’s exceptions also argue that the “testimony made clear that after
Respondent was admonished in the [Hospital’s] Medical Staff process, no further incidents of any
kind were reported.”'> Considering the context, the Panel is not convinced that this shows that the
Respondent is not a real threat to patients and to patient care. The evidence indicates that Hospital
employees were fearful of making reports against the Respondent and that they had little faith that

any report by them would result in the Respondent being held accountable. Complainant 2 was

reluctant to make a report because she did not feel she had the support of her supervisors. In fact,

'S The Panel believes that the Respondent’s argument was intended to mean that there were no
reports or complaints after the Hospital reprimanded the Respondent for misconduct occurring
after the reprimand. The record shows reports or complaints of the Respondent’s misconduct
submitted after the Hospital’s reprimand for misconduct which occurred before the Hospital
reprimanded the Respondent.

49

 
