 

ORDERED that Dr. Benalcazar is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Benalcazar’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii), for a minimum period of ONE
YEAR," commencing when the Respondent’s Maryland medical license is reinstated under
Health Occ. § 14-317. During the suspension, Dr. Benalcazar shall comply with the following
conditions of suspension:

1. During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of medical
services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider number
by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care
facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

2. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days from the commencement of the minimum one-year suspension,
the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days from the commencement of the minimum one-year
suspension, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals,
rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP; .

'7 If the Respondent’s license expires while he is under suspension under this Final Decision and

Order on Amended Charges, the suspension and suspension terms and conditions will be tolled.
COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).

$2

 
