distraction he caused at the Hospital, and the seriousness of his egregious behavior. The ALJ’s
proposed finding that there was no real danger at the time the Order for Summary Suspension
was issued is rejected by the Panel. The State’s exception is granted.

B. Articulation of Theory for Summary Suspension

The ALJ found that the Board did not articulate a theory in the order for summary
suspension stating how the Respondent posed a serious risk of harm at the time the order for
summary suspension was issued. (PD at 10-11.) The State took exception.

The ALJ’s proposed decision states, “While the Board detailed its Investigative Findings
in the Order for Summary Suspension, nowhere did it explicitly state in what way the
Respondent’s alleged behavior would form the grounds for a revocation under section 14-404 of
the Health Occupations Article of the Maryland Code.” (PD at 10.) The order for summary
suspension, however, does not concern a revocation under § 14-404 of the Health Occupations
Article. The summary suspension was based upon § 10-226(c)(2) of the State Government
Article, which requires the agency to give the licensee “written notice of the suspension, the
finding, and the reasons that support the finding.” State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2)(ii)1. The order for
summary suspension notified the Respondent of the suspension, stating that “the Respondent’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, is hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDED.”
(Capitals and bold in original.) The order for summary suspension provided the finding, stating
“Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that the
public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs.
(COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7)(a).” The order for summary suspension also provided the

reasoning upon which the finding of the imperative need for the summary suspension was based:

22
