 

|
/

The ALJ found that the Respondent’s unprofessional conduct included the Respondent
calling Individual 4, an OR secretary, on her phone while she was at her desk from 15 feet away
while they were at the Hospital and asking her to sit on his lap and, on another occasion, for telling
Individual 4 that she had a “nice butt.” The Respondent did not take exception to this. Panel B
finds that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), for telling Individual 4 at the Hospital that she. had a
“nice butt” and for calling Individual 4 at her desk in the Hospital from 15 feet away and asking
her to sit on his lap. See Banks, 354 Md. at 62-64.

IV. SPECIFIC CONDUCT TO WHICH THE RESPONDENT TOOK EXCEPTION

A. Complaint No. 1 (Medtronic balls / hand on Complainant 1’s chest, etc.)

The Respondent challenged the ALJ’s findings concerning Complainant |. The ALJ found
that the Respondent acted unprofessionally by telling Complainant | in the OR that she should put
the Medtronic balls that fell on the floor in her mouth, that the Respondent placed his hand inside
her scrub shirt on her upper chest, that the Respondent commented on her underwear multiple
times, and that he lightly touched her back several times. Despite finding a few inconsistencies in
her testimony, the ALJ found Complainant 1 credible and accepted her testimony concerning these
incidents.

The ALJ also addressed the Respondent’s contention that Complainant 1 was not credible
because she was friends with Complainant 2 and that the two conspired against the Respondent.
The ALJ found that Complainant | filed her complaint years later after discussing with
Complainant 2 Complainant 2’s intentions for seeking redress against the Respondent. The ALJ
found that the coordination between the two explained the timing of Complainant 1’s complaint

to the Board but did not indicate that the complaint by Complainant 1 was fabricated.

30

 
