 

The Panel does not have any doubt from Individual 7’s testimony that she worked at the
Hospital during a time that the Respondent worked there. And the Panel finds plausible that the
Respondent would not be able to pick Individual 7 out of a line-up, as Individual 7 made clear, she
tried to avoid interactions with him, and Individual 7’s employment position at the Hospital was
one in which she could mostly avoid interacting with the Respondent. But the Panel finds false
the Respondent’s testimony that he had “never spoken with [Individual 7].” Stating that he had
never spoken with Individual 7 means that the Respondent testified that he never even said
something as innocuous as “hi,” “hey,” “good morning,” or something along those lines to
Individual 7. Considering the many occasions throughout the evidentiary hearing that the
Respondent testified that he did not recall specific comments or incidents, it is unclear to the Panel
how the Respondent could be certain that he never spoken with Individual 7. The Respondent may
not recall making the statement at issue to Individual 7, but that is different from having “never
spoken to” her. The Panel gives minimal weight to his statement that he never spoke with
Individual 7. The Respondent’s exception is denied. The Panel finds Individual 7’s testimony
entirely plausible, reasonable, and credible and thus finds that the Respondent said to Individual 7
that it was a good thing she had a cute, little butt. This comment about Individual 7’s buttocks is
exceedingly inappropriate in a medical setting and thus the Respondent, for this comment in the
Hospital and constitutes unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health

Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

'2 Because the sexual misconduct regulations the ALJ cited were not in effect at the time that the
Respondent made this comment to Individual 7, the Panel does not address whether the sexual
misconduct regulations were violated. But the Panel does find that the Respondent’s statement to
Individual 7 at issue is unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article. See also Banks, 354 Md. at 62-63. The Respondent
also challenged that ALJ’s findings that the Respondent’s conduct violated the sexual misconduct
regulations for Individuals 6 and 11. Thus, the Panel likewise also does not address the sexual

34
