Dennis Glick, M.D.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Dennis Glick, M.D.

License Number: D73381

Case Number: 2223-0116

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”)
§14-403, I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D73381, effective immediately. I understand that upon
surrender of my license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with
or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the
practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 e seg. and other applicable laws. In other
words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender
of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State
of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a referral from the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration reporting concerns regarding my prescribing of controlled
dangerous substances to patients. | have decided to surrender my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid prosecution of these allegations and due to my
current retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery
of quality medical care), and (40) (fails to keep adequate medical records).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
