of newborn babies violated the standard of care” and that the Respondent was guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine when she violated a supervisor’s order
to not attend deliveries at the Hospital.*

7. On or around June 1, 2023, the Respondent voluntarily signed a consent
order (the “Consent Order I”) to resolve the Disciplinary Charges.*

IV. The Respondent’s Health Conditions

8. Among other things, Consent Order I required that the Respondent enroll in
and successfully complete a Board-approved health program (the “Health Program”).

9. As part of the Respondent’s participation in the Health Program, the
Respondent underwent evaluations (the “Evaluations”) and was diagnosed with health
conditions.°

10. A medical specialist reviewed the pertinent documents, including, but not
limited to, documents contained in the Board’s investigative file from the Disciplinary
Charges and the Evaluations and, on or around September 11, 2023, opined that the

Respondent “is not capable of safely practicing medicine at this time.”

? The Board submitted the medical records of ten (10) patients to a peer review entity and two peer
reviewers, each board-certified in neonatology, independently reviewed the records and
determined that the Respondent violated the standard of care for nine (9) out of ten (10) patients.
3 The Respondent was charged with violating Health Occ. § 14-404(a): (3)(ii) Is guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as
determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care
performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location in this State; and
(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by appropriate peer review.

4 Consent Order I took effect when the Board’s Executive Director signed Consent Order I on June
7, 2023.

5 For confidentiality reasons, the specific information contained in the Evaluations will not be
disclosed in this document.

 
