Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Maria Gonzalez Berlari, M.D.
Letter of Surrender

Page 2

any state for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action under this section), with
an underlying ground of Health Occ. § (3)(ii) (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned findings and conclusions. I do not wish to contest these findings and
conclusions. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

T understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
‘the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.),-and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. | also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A
or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if | file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

Tacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
1 was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to
practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this
Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language,
