Maria Gonzalez Berlari, M.D.

Date: March 27, 2024

‘Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Maria Gonzalez Berlari, M.D.
License Number: D96358
Case Number: 2224-0118A

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant'to Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D96358, effective immediately, I
understand that upon the surrender of my license, 1 may not give medical advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation after receiving information
regarding a disciplinary Order for Letter of Reprimand and Probation of my Arizona
medical license (“Arizona Order”), dated February 7, 2024, The Arizona Medical Board
found that I prescribed controlled substances to immediate family members without
maintaining a medical record and without clinical justification, and further found that I
prescribed myself controlled substances on five occasions. A copy of the Arizona Order
is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution by Panel A based on
discipline by the Arizona Medical Board. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to
medical licensure that the findings and conclusions in the Arizona Order shall be treated as
proven and that these findings and conclusions support a conclusion that I violated Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(21) of the Act (is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority of
