Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.

Letter of Surrender

Lic. No. D04823
Page 2

I am waiving my right to contest any pending investigation or allegations of the
Board at a formal evidentiary hearing. In waiving my right to a formal evidentiary
hearing, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to a
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioners’ Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have
surrendered my license in lieu of further action under the Act. I also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Pro. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014 and 2017 Supp.).

1 affirm that as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I will provide my
patients with access to and copies of medical records, upon request, and I acknowledge
that I have a continuing duty, on proper request, to provide a patient's medical record to
the patient, another physician or hospital in accordance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of
the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered permanently, effective December 23, 2017.
I agree I have no right to apply for reinstatement of my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland, and the Board or a disciplinary panel is not obligated to consider any
future application for licensure.

IT acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been
represented by an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I acknowledge that I
understand and comprehend the language, meaning, terms, and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I voluntarily choose to surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine
pursuant to the terms and conditions set out herein. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

fut Aly ur mp
Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.
