Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.

December 11, 2017

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Jui-Chih Hsu, M.D.

License Number: D04823

MBP Case Number: 2217-0022 B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to permanently SURRENDER my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D04823, effective
December 23, 2017. I understand that upon the surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.)
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice based on a
hospital report to the Board in February 2017 concerning the automatic relinquishment of
my clinical privileges for failure to complete a provider health evaluation as requested by
the hospital. After considering my age, health, and the demands of my practice, I have
decided to surrender my license, effective December 23, 2017. Between the date of this
letter and its effective date, I will reduce my patient load to no more than 25 patient visits
per day, six days per week.

The surrender of my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland will
resolve the pending actions by the Board regarding my practice of medicine.
