Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: — Elizabeth Lilly, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Permanent Letter of
Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I
do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of
Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event |
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter
of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq.
(2019 Repl. Vol.), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B,
including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender.
I consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter permanently
surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel
B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I
make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File
Elizabath Lilly, M.D. @
