Joseph H. Miller, M.D.

April /3, 2018

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D06982
MBP Case Number: 2217-0109 B

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II’) §
14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D06982, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage
in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act’’), Health Occ. IT §§ 14-101 ef seg., and other applicable laws. In other
words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my
license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”)
acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B.

I acknowledge that the Board received two complaints regarding my prescribing of
controlled substances to patients in methadone treatment and opened an investigation concerning
my prescribing practices. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my
planned retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. II § 14-404(a) (22) and (40), which require physicians to practice within the
standard of care and keep adequate medical records.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest
any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
