Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Joseph H. Miller, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony,
to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in
any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board or Panel B to the same extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance
with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license

will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply
for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not
required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and
conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the
integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I ever file petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with
and have been represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to
practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter
of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File
Joseph H. Miller, M.D.
