 

Rolando Najera, M.D.

June 24 2017

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Rolando Najera, M.D. License Number: D07463
Case Number: 2017-0384

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D07463, effective
immediately. I understand that upon the surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my
license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging that I have a health
condition that may impact my ability to practice medicine and that the Board initiated an
investigation into the allegations. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these allegations and due to my current health condition. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
and that these allegations support a conclusion that I engaged in unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine (by prescribing medication to myself and family members) in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) and I recognize that there is sufficient
evidence to support a conclusion that I am professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404 (a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
