 

Damean Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Rolando Najera, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license as if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order
that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-
101 et seg. (2014), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I will present to
the Board my original Maryland medical license, number D07463, and any renewal
wallet cards. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical
records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by tendering this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree
that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider
any application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date and that I
waive any hearing rights regarding any such application.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. 1 understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend
the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Sfleede 4. Ve 7

_ Rolando Najera, M.,

| C Tey Poa
% hae
