There are no federal or Maryland laws, regulations or written policies that preclude ,
physicians from treating immediate family members. The Opinions of the Code of Medical
Ethics are also not laws or rules, but as the Preface states, are a guide for physicians on ethical

behavior. A physician’s deviation from the guidance offered in the AMA Code of Ethics and the

 

Ethical Opinions, however, may support a finding that a physician engaged in unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine.

Opinion 8.19 states:

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their immediate families.
Professional objectivity may be compromised when an immediate family member or the
physician is the patient; the physician’s personal feelings may unduly influence his or her
professional medical judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered.
Physicians may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical history or may fail
to perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Similarly, patients may feel
uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an intimate examination
when the physician is an immediate family member. This discomfort is particularly the
case when the patient is a minor child, and sensitive’ or intimate care should especially be
avoided for such patients. When treating themselves or immediate family members,
physicians may be inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training. If
tensions develop in a physician’s professional relationship with a family member,
perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such difficulties may be carried over
into the family member’s personal relationship with the physician:

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant when
physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family members may be
reluctant to state their preference for another physician or decline a tecommendation for
fear of offending the physician. In particular, minor children will generally not feel free
to refuse care from their parents. Likewise, physicians may feel obligated to provide care
to immediate family members even if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake self-treatment or treatment of
immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no .
other qualified physician available, physicians should not hesitate to treat themselves or
family members until another physician becomes available, In addition, while physicians
should not serve as a primary or regular care provider for immediate family members,
there are situations in which routine care is acceptable for short-term, minor problems.
Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write prescriptions for
controlled substances for themselves or immediate family members.

15
