 

hearing about any substantive matters, and therefore; he should not be allowed to offer the
testimony through the exceptions process.

Dr. Epstein was given the opportunity to respond to the State’s motion, but did not file a

response. Board Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A” or the “Panel”) granted the State’s motion, in

part, citing a Board’s regulation, which states, “[t]he disciplinary panel may not accept additional
evidence through the written exceptions process.” COMAR 10.32.02.05B(1)(e). The Panel
explained that the admission of this new information would not be fair to the Administrative
Prosecutor, who would be unable to cross-examine witnesses to challenge the new information..
On February 14, 2020, Panel A issued an Order Striking Additional Information not in Evidence
from the Exceptions Proceeding. The Panel, however, declined to strike Dr. Epstein’s written
exceptions as a whole, noting that some of the exceptions appropriately contained arguments that
were not based on additional evidence. On April 8, 2020, Panel A heard oral arguments on Dr.
Epstein’s remaining exceptions.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A adopts the ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact.! The ALJ’s Proposed Findings of

Fact (paragraphs 1-43) are incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set:

forth in full.? See attached ALJ Proposed Decision, Exhibit 1. The factual findings were proven
by a preponderance of the evidence, The Panel also adopts the ALJ’s discussion set forth on

pages 10-27 of the ALJ’s proposed decision.

' For purposes of confidentiality, the Board redacted the names, relationships, and, to the extent possible,
the medications and medical conditions of Dr. Epstein’s family members. The family members will be
referred to in this Order as Family Member 1, Family Member 2, and Family Member 3.

> The Board modifies the following dates containing typographical errors in the summary of the evidence
section: Page 2, State #3 is modified to November 14, 2012, State #6 is modified to January 21, 2016,
Page 3, State #12, 13, [4 are modified to October 25, 2018, Resp #2 is modified to October 24, 2019,
The Board modifies the following typographical errors in the discussion section: Page 18, line 7 is
modified to begin “January 2017”.
