 

In a 2012 Consent Order, the Board found that Dr. Epstein inserted non-FDA approved
Intrauterine Devices (IUDs) that he purchased through the Internet from Canada in fifteen
patients but billed their insurance companies for implanting FDA-approved IUDs. He never
informed those patients that he implanted non-lDA-approved IUDs and recorded in their
medical records that they were FDA-approved IUDs. The Board found that he violated the
standard of care, based on these insertions, based on his failure to provide informed consent
about the placement of the non-FDA approved IUD and his failure to remove the IUD. Dr.
Epstein was also found to have kept inadequate medical records by failing to record adequate
informed consent, failing to document why procedures were necessary, failing to document the
success or failure of the treatment, and failing to document whether non-operative treatments
were discussed or attempted. The Board found Dr. Epstein was guilty of unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine, willfully filed a false report or record in the practice of medicine,
violated the standard of care, willfully submitted false statements to collect fees for which
services were not provided, and failed to keep adequate medical records, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (11), (22), (23), and (40) and found that he violated the 2007 Consent
Order.

In a 2014 Consent Order, Disciplinary Panel B of the Board found that Dr. Epstein again
implanted a non-FDA approved Mirena IUD without the patient’s knowledge or consent, billed
the patient’s insurance company for implanting an FDA-approved NovaSure IUD, and altered
the patient’s medical record by replacing the Mirena IUD sticker with the NovaSure IUD sticker.
Dr. Epstein was also found to have dispensed prescription drugs, specifically, the weight loss
drug phentermine, to patients without a dispensing permit, and violated numerous dispensing

laws and regulations, Panel B found that Dr. Epstein was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the

12

 
