 

his prescriptions for Family Members 2 and 3 were merely short-term refills and, therefore, fell
within the exception described in Ethics Opinion 8.19. Dr. Epstein’s contentions are belied by
the type of medications he prescribed, the duration of the prescribing, and the conditions treated. .

Dr. Epstein prescribed a thirty-day supply of a Schedule II CDS with a high diversion and
abuse potential to Family Member 1 on thirty-nine separate occasions during an eighteen-month
period, which amounts to approximately a new prescription every two wecks, While the Board
subpoenaed 18-months of prescriptions, Dr, Epstein‘s medical records indicate that Dr. Epstein
prescribed Family Member 1 this Schedule JI CDS for approximately five years. The CDS he
prescribed is generally not prescribed by gynecologists and the condition he was treating was not
within the practice of gynecology, Nor did Dr, Epstein merely provide refills of prescriptions
initiated by other providers. Rather, Dr. Epstein changed the medication from one Schedule IT
CDS to another. Then he went back to the first CDS but increased the dosage. In any case, the:
prescribing went on for a period of years. These prescriptions were not written on an emergency
basis, they were not isolated, and they were not used to treat a “short-term, minor problem.”

Dr. Epstein prescribed Family Member 2 a three-month supply of a Schedule IV CDS
with three refills,’ A year’s worth of medication is not prescribed for an emergency situation.
Dr. Epstein asserts that, for a daily prescription of this drug, if'a patient is out of medication and
her prescribing physician is unavailable, it is an emergency and providing refills was not a
violation of the code of ethics.

The evidence, however, does not indicate that’ Family Member 2’s physician was

unavailable. The Panel agrees with the State’s expert that providing a one-year supply of a

‘ Dr. Epstein claims that he did not need to document Family Member 2’s condition for this medication

because it was décumented in the family member’s specialist’s medical records. Panel A disagrees, Dr.

Epstein was prescribing this CDS for the family member’s condition, therefore, the medical condition
’ should have been in the Dr, Epstein's medical records for that family member.

 
