 

explained that Dr. Salerian’s conduct violated the AMA’s ethical standards. Salerian, 176 Md.
App. at 249,

Here, Panel A relies on the testimony of the State’s expert, who explained that it was
inappropriate and unethical for Dr. Epstein to treat and prescribe medications, including CDS, to
three family members. The State’s expert based her opinion on her experience, training, the
AMA Medical Ethics Opinions 8,19 and 1.2.1, the commonly understood opinion of the medical
community, and prior Board precedent. Panel A places great weight on the State’s expert’s
testimony and on the two referenced ethics opinions.

Ethics Opinion 8.19 states “[p]hysicians generally should not treat... members of their
immediate family.” The opinion discussed how “[p]rofessional objectivity may be compromised
when an immediate family member . . . is the patient; the physician’s personal feelings may
unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment, thereby interfering with the care
being delivered.” The ethics opinion states that “[p]hysicians may fail to probe sensitive areas
when taking the medical history,” and that, “[sJimilarly, patients may feel uncomfortable
disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an intimate examination.” Particularly relevant
here, “physicians may be inclined to treat problems beyond their expertise or training.” Finally,
the opinion states, “fe]xcept in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write
prescriptions for controlled dangerous substances for .. . immediate family members.”

The Panel adopts the ALJ’s analysis regarding Dr. Epstein’s unprofessional conduct, The
Panel agrees that the concerns associated with treating a family member as described by AMA
Ethics Opinion 8,19 and Opinion 1.2.1 are present in this case.

For Family Member 1, Dr. Epstein prescribed a Schedule II CDS with significant side

effects thirty-nine times over a period of eighteen months, Dr. Epstein ignored significant red

sop ageteupennepupaewns:
