medication indicates that there was no emergency or short-term issue. Many of the prescription
non-CDS medications were prescribed to Family Member 2 and Family Member 3 on a repeated
basis and, therefore, were also not limited to emergency circumstances.” The Panel adopts the
reasoning in the ALJ’s proposed order and concludes that Dr. Epstein’s prescriptions were not
prescribed in an emergency nor do they fall under any exception discussed in AMA Ethics
Opinion 8.19 or 1.2.1.

4. Dr. Epstein’s Expert

Dr. Epstein argues that the Pane! should adopt his expert’s conclusion based on his
expert’s qualifications as the Practicing Chairman of the Department of OB/GYN at Hospital A.
The ALJ, however, found Dr. Epstein’s expert’s testimony unpersuasive for several reasons, For

his testimony related to Family Member 1, Dr. Epstein’s expert admitted that he did not review

the exhibits, and the Panel agrees with the ALJ that he, therefore, did not know all of the

essential facts. Also, several of Dr. Epstein’s expert’s conclusions were based on information
that was outside the record, For example, Dr. Epstein's expert based his opinion on information
the expert received from Dr. Epstein’s counsel that was not substantiated by evidence in the

record.
Dr. Epstein also argues, based on his expert’s testimony, that delivering family members’

babies is not unprofessional. The ALJ considered the testimony of Dr. Epstein’s expert and the

* In exception paragraph 10, Dr. Epstein challenges the ALJ’s finding that the FDA has found that the use
of a medication does not result in a certain outcome, His exception claims that, in fact, the medication
does result in that outcome. Panel A finds no error in the ALJ’s statements regarding the medication.

In each exception in paragraph 13 and 14, Dr. Epstein claims that certain medications were used
for a particular treatment. However, the ALI acknowledged that the medication could be used for the
treatment in each case, and, therefore, it is not clear what is Dr, Epstein’s objection. The ALJ describes
the exact treatment that is listed in Dr. Epstein’s exception in footnote 7 and paragraph 41, respectively.
Dr. Epstein’s exceptions are denied.

 
