:

 

 

flags, such as Family Member 1 requiring escalating doses, filling prescriptions. at different
pharmacies, and Family Member 1’s statement that the Schedule II cbs was wearing off too
soon. Moreover, Family Member 1’s medical condition was not within Dr. Epstein’s expertise
and training as a gynecologist. Dr, Epstein’s compromised professional objectivity likely
contributed to his failure to heed the red flags indicating possible drug abuse or diversion?

Finally, the Ethics Opinion 8.19 explicitly states that, except in emergencies, it is not appropriate

_ for a physician to prescribe CDS to family members. Dr. Epstein’s prescribing CDS to Patient 1

over the course of several years does not qualify as an emergency.

For Family Member 2, Dr. Epstein prescribed two different Schedule TV CDS for a total
of ten CDS prescriptions and several other non-CDS prescription drugs for medical conditions
that were, again, outside his expertise. As will be explained further in the next section, the CDS
was not prescribed in an emergency. The ALJ further found, and the Panel adopts the finding
that Dr. Epstein did not maintain sufficient medical records nor did he document the patient’s
consent, which should have included informing the patient that the medication was found by the
Federal Drug Administration to be ineffective for the condition which it was prescribed. He also
operated on Family Member 2, performing significant elective surgeries. These elective
surgeries were not performed in an emergency circumstance.

For Family Member 3, Dr. Epstein prescribed two different types of CDS, on one

occasion for each drug, and did not document that he provided informed consent prior to.

prescribing a CDS that has a potential side effect. Dr. Epstein also prescribed several other

> Dr, Epstein further argues that his prescribing of this medication was not overprescribing. Dr, Epstein
was not charged with a standard of care violation, nor does the Panel conclude that he was guilty of a
standard of-care violation for overprescribing. The Board does not find that Dr. Epstein engaged in
overprescribing.

 
