Glenn Legler, Sr., M.D.

Digg 08D
May 2019

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Glenn Legler, Sr., M.D. License Number: D09044
Case Number: 2219-0105 A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Occ.”) §14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to
PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D09044, effective immediately. I understand that upon
surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined
in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT, and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes
a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint from a Corporal in the
Sheriff's Office of St. Mary’s County regarding a report from a pharmacist in St.
Mary’s County. The pharmacist had received a prescription that I wrote in Bethesda,
Montgomery County for a Controlled Dangerous Substance, and thought it might
be fraudulent. The Corporal filed a complaint with the Board after a conversation
with me about the prescription that raised concerns about my health. The Board’s
investigation into the allegations raised additional concerns that I may have health
issues which are affecting my ability to practice medicine safely. On April 10, 2019,
