Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.

Date: Figc \ | chon yOH\
Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor

Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.

License Number: D09071

Case Number: 2220-0236A

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License
Number D09071, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I
may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as
of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender

of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the
State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint based on my fitness to practice
medicine due to my current health status and initiated an investigation into the
allegations. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations
and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure
that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404 (a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
