Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Glenn Legler, Sr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Panel A voted to summarily suspend my license and to provide me with an
opportunity to show cause why the suspension should not be continued. A copy of
the Order for Summary suspension is attached.

Subsequent to the issuance of the Order of Summary Suspension, I decided
to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further prosecution of these allegations. I wish to make it clear that I have
voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Permanent Letter of
Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned allegations and charges under
the Act. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I recognize that for all purposes
relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and
that these allegations support a conclusion that I am not able to practice medicine
safely and that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine).

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any order of summary suspension and any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing
at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released
or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health-General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other
words, I agree that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in
part or in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I
