1. His telephonic communications with Board staff which raised significant
concerns regarding the effect of his physical mobility limitations on his
ability to practice medicine in a safe and competent manner;

2. His responses in an interview with Board staff which raised significant
concerns regarding his ability to concentrate on the topics discussed;

3. The physical condition of his home office and the lack of a readily
accessible computer and patient medical records;

4, His prescribing controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) for patients who
are geographically distant from his office, including patients who are out-
of-state;

5. His prescribing CDS for himself and a family member, Family Member A’,
and

6. His failure to submit to an appropriate examination on three occasions as
directed by the Board, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-402.

The Board opened this case in November 2018 based on a complaint from a
Corporal with the St. Mary’s County Sheriff’s Office (the “Corporal”). A pharmacist in
St. Mary’s County, in Southern Maryland, called the Corporal because a patient with a St.
Mary’s County address presented a prescription for CDS which had been written by
Respondent whose practice is located in Montgomery County, Maryland.

The Board’s investigation revealed that Respondent, a psychiatrist, predominately
treats individuals with drug addiction and dependence in his home office where there is
no professional staff or other individuals present. The office is located on the lower level
of the home, which is not readily accessible to other individuals who may be present in

the home. Respondent has been experiencing mobility issues for several years. He uses a

> The names of patients are confidential and are not used in a public order. Respondent is aware of the
identity of Family Member A.

> Health Occ. § 14-402 authorizes the Board when investigating an allegation against a licensee to direct
the licensee to a health professional program to submit to an appropriate examination.

2
