Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel. A
RE: Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.),
and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words,
I agree that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. | understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. | acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision
knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours, /

Signature on File’

Charles J. Lancelotta, Jr., M.D.
