 

Youngsik Moon, M.D.

February 15, 2018

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

 

Re: Permanent Letter of Surrender to Practice Medicine
Youngsik Moon, M.D., License# D09178
MBP Case Number: 2217-0094

Dear Dr. Bhandari and members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that | have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D09178,
effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II”), §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.)
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and upon
Disciplinary Panel A's (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice following
the receipt of a complaint alleging substandard quality care. In furtherance of its
investigation, Panel A ordered that | undergo a neuropsychological evaluation, and the
evaluator recommended based on his evaluation that | discontinue the practice of
medicine. | have decided to surrender my license to avoid further investigation and
prosecution of these allegations. These allegations support a violation of Health Occ. II
§ 14-404(a)(4) (is professionally, physically or mentally incompetent).

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of the allegations. | acknowledge that for all purposes relevant to my medical licensure
in Maryland, that these allegations will be treated as if proven.
