Arun Bandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Younsik Moon, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

| understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender | am waiving
my right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary allegations. In waiving my right to
contest the allegations, | am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the
hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,
and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right
to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that | have
surrendered my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in the event | would
apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, | will provide
access to and copies of medical records to my patients in compliance with Title 4,
subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other
words, | agree that | have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. | further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated
to consider any application for licensure or reinstatement that | might file at a future
date.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part
or in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have
been advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | have consulted with an attorney before
signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. | understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter
of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.
