10.
HH.
further investigation in the matter was warranted and requested that the Respondent

provide a written response to the complaint within ten business days. The Board also

The certificate of medical records signed by the Respondent states:

1 C. Jean Posner, MD do hereby certify and solemnly affirm
under the penalties of perjury, that to the best of my knowledge,
information and belief, the enclosed medical records in response to
the attached subpoena are an accurate reproduction of any and all
records in my possession or constructive possession and are in
compliance with the attached subpoena.

I have personally reviewed the entire medical record and
further certify to the best of my knowledge, information and belief,
that I have provided the Maryland Board of Physicians (Board) with
the COMPLETE MEDICAL RECORDS which include all
records pertaining to the care and treatment of the patient

in my possession or constructive
possession and control, including all materials generated by me, or
other health care providers, all laboratory reports, all jacket entries
and all other entries as kept in the regular course of business for cach
patient in my medical practice.

I understand for my failure to provide the complete medical
records to the Board may constitute failure to cooperate with the
Board’s lawful investigation and may result in disciplinary action by
the Board under the Maryland Medical Practice Act.

On the blank line the Respondent handwrote “requested patients.”

By letter dated November 13, 2019,‘ the Board notified the Respondent that

subpoenaed a complete copy of the medical billing records for Patients 1-9.

12,

On or about January 9, 2020, the Respondent transmitted to the Board a

written response and the billing records for each of the nine patients.

13.

provide within five business.days a written statement confirming whether she personally

By letter dated June 17, 2020, the Board requested that the Respondent

* The Board also emailed the documents to the Respondent on December 11, 2019.

4
