Date: Joly 30, 202]

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4'" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Carol Posner, M.D. License Number; D09427
Case Number: 2220-0115B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl, Vol, & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D09427, effective
immediately. [understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ, §§ 14-101 et seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

T understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (‘Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

Tacknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on March
1, 2021, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22),
(33), and (40). Specifically, Panel B alleged I failed to meet appropriate standards for the
delivery of quality medical care, failed to keep adequate medical records, and failed to
cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board. A copy of the charges is
attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges,

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I
acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated
as if proven.

T understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges, In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
