10. By email dated January 3, 2023, the Respondent’s counsel advised the
Board that the Respondent was unable to attend the examination due to a medical
condition. The Respondent also submitted a letter to the Board dated December 30, 2022,
from the Respondent’s PCP, which stated that the Respondent was unable to participate
due to a medical condition.

11. On or about January 4, 2023, the Board received additional medical records
from the Respondent’s PCP, which included an assessment and diagnosis of the
Respondent’s medical condition, made on or about December 20, 2022.°

12. On or about January 4, 2023, Board staff conducted a telephonic interview
with the Respondent’s PCP who provided an updated assessment of the Respondent’s
condition.’

13. The Board rescheduled the Respondent’s examination to another date. By
letter dated January 6, 2023, the Respondent’s counsel advised that the Respondent was
unable to attend the examination on the rescheduled date or at any other time due to her

medical condition, which had not improved.

 

> For confidentiality reasons, the name of the health care facility will not be disclosed in this document.
The Respondent may obtain this information from the Board. For confidentiality reasons, the specific
information contained in the Respondent’s medical records will not be disclosed in this document. This
information will be disclosed to the Respondent upon request. The Panel reviewed this information prior
to the issuance of this Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine.

° For confidentiality reasons, the specific information contained in the Respondent’s medical records will
not be disclosed in this document. This information will be disclosed to the Respondent upon request. The

Panel reviewed this information prior to the issuance of this Order for Summary Suspension of License to
Practice Medicine.

7 For confidentiality reasons, the specific information provided by the Respondent’s PCP will not be
disclosed in this document. This information will be disclosed to the Respondent upon request. The Panel

reviewed this information prior to the issuance of this Order for Summary Suspension of License to
Practice Medicine.

 

 
