Permanent Letter of Surrender
In re: Carolyn J. Pass, MD.
License No. D10952; Case No. 2223-0028B

license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation
and the issuance of charges.

I recognize that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland that
I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and further
prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these
allegations.

[understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a
formal evidential hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provide by law, including the right to appeal
to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other
state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2022), and that this Letter
of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also
agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office
of Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any
application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.
