Rifat K. Abousy, M.D.

Date: February A, 2022

 

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Rifat K. Abousy, M.D.
License Number: D12729
Case Number: 2221-0110

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) § 14-403
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland, License Number D1 2729, effective immediately. I understand that upon
surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or
without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date
of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland,

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

I acknowledge that the Board issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(40) (fails to keep adequate medical records). I closed my office and transferred all of
my patients prior to December 31, 2021 to take care of my wife. I have decided to surrender my
license in the State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of these disciplinary charges and due
to my retirement and caregiver responsibilities.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges and because of my
retirement and caregiver responsibilities. | acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical
licensure in Maryland, the charges will be treated as proven.
