Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Ann-Louise Silver, M.D. License Number: D13368
Case Number:2221-0126

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D13368, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

[ understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a patient complaint alleging that I made
inappropriate remarks, billed for visits which did not occur, and maintained no medical
record and that the Board initiated an investigation into the allegations. I have decided to
permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current retirement.
I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall
be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine),

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand
that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.
