William B. Russell, M.D.

October 17, 2017

Damean W, E. Freas, D,O., Chair, Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D 13586
* Case Number: 2017-0295

Dear Dr, Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that I have voluntarily decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State.of Maryland, License Number D13586, effective immediately, I understand
that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual with or
without compensation and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in
the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the "Act"), Md, Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § § 14- 1 01 et seg. (2014 Rep. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter or Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State'of Maryland.

L understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUM ENT and that upon the acceptance
_ of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians, becomes a FINAL ORDER of the Board,

L acknowledge that pending at the time of this voluntary surrender are disciplinary charges by
Disciplinary Panel B pursuant to Md, Health Occ. Code § 14-403(a)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine); § 14-404(a)(28) (failure to comply with the provisions of § 12-102 of this [Health
Occupations] article; and § 14-404(a)(36) (willfully makes a false representation when seeking or making
application for licensure or any other application related to the practice or medicine, The Boards
investigation revealed that I dispensed prescription drugs after my permit to dispense prescription drugs
expired, Before charges were filed, both I and my former employer admitted to the Board that an error had
contributed to the violation, I understand that for purposes related to medical licensure; those charges will be
treated as proven, The charges are attached and incorporated as Attachment A.

wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit this Letter of
Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned allegations set forth in the charging document, and
because of my planned retirement from the practice of medicine. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I
understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, Lam waiving my right to contest the charges in a
formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and to all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

L affirm that upon acceptance of this Letter of Surender by Disciplinary, Panel B, I will not practice
