or seek to practice medicine in the State of Maryland or elsewhere. I further affirm that I will not maintain a
medical office nor will I maintain any privileges at any hospital, outpatient surgical facility, nursing home or
any other health care facility in the State of Maryland.

I understand that the Board will advise the federation of State Medical Boards, the National
Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and
in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license to avoid further disciplinary action under the
Act. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board or Panel B to the same
extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code An n., Gen. Prov. §§
4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter or Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

L affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my original
Maryland medical license, number D13586, any renewal wallet cards and wall certificate. I also affirm that J
will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4. subtitle 3 of the
Health General article. . :

I further recognize and agree that by tendering this permanent Letter of Surrender that my license will
remairi permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no right to réapply for a license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland. I further agree that the Board or a disciplinary panel is not
obligated to consider any application for licensure that I might file at a future date.

. L acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for any reason
whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that 1 have been advised of my right to be represented by an
attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney
prior to signing this Letter of Surrender, and that I have consulted with an attorney before signing this Letter
of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning, terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Sincerely,

Mb Bob tA

William B. Russell;M.D.

   
 
 
