practice; and (2) send by first class mail to the last known address of the four (4) patients
who filed complaints with the Board who are referenced in this Consent Order.

4, By letter dated January 6, 2020, sent to the Respondent’s address of record,?
Board staff, among other things, reiterated the terms of the Consent Order and provided
contact information for the Board.
II. Violation of Consent Order

5. The Board did not receive the Documents within thirty (30) days of the

Consent Order.

6. By letter dated February 28, 2020, the Board requested the Documents by
March 4, 2020. The Respondent did not respond to the letter and the letter was not returned

as undeliverable.

7. By email dated March 6, 2020, sent to the Respondent’s email address of
record, the Board requested that the Respondent send the Documents immediately,

8. On March 6, 2020, Board staff called the Respondent at his phone number
of record.’ Board staff did not speak with the Respondent but left him a voicemail

requesting the Documents.

* The Respondent submitted an application to renew his license to practice medicine in Maryland on August
26, 2018 (the “Application”). The Application indicated that the Board would use the address provided by
the Respondent for official correspondence. On December 4, 2019 the address of record was updated. All
of the Board’s mail correspondence was mailed to the Respondent’s updated address of record,

3 The Board emailed the Respondent at the email address provided by the Respondent on the Application.
The Application indicated that the Board would use the email address for official correspondence. The
Board never received a change of email address from the Respondent and all the Board’s email
correspondence was sent to the email address provided by the Respondent.

‘ Board staff contacted the Respondent at the phone number the Respondent provided on the Application.

The Board never received a change of phone number from the Respondent after he submitted the
Application.
