Antonio Valentin, M.D.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Antonio Valentin, M.D., License Number: D14252
Case Number: 2223-0015

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §14-403
(2021 ReplI. Vol.), [have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, License Number D14252, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health
Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, [ understand that the surrender of my license means that ] am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, it becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”). ] acknowledge that the Board initiated an
investigation following the receipt of information that I may be prescribing medications to
myself and to a family member. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation of these allegations and because I am
permanently retired as a primary care physician and my practice has been permanently closed to
patients. J recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall
be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(3)(ii).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit
this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.
