violated the Consent Order. Dr. Folkemer violated condition 3 of the probationary terms of the
Consent Order. There is no genuine dispute as to the underlying material facts. Dr. Folkemer
acknowledges that prescriptions he wrote violated the Consent Order. Dr. Folkemer does not
dispute that in December 2013, he prescribed opiates and benzodiazepine medications.’
Specifically, Dr. Folkemer, in December 2013, wrote 10 prescriptions for opiates and three
prescriptions for Xanax (alprazolam), a benzodiazepine. The opiates and benzodiazepines were
prescribed to be taken for longer than three days and were not in cases of emergencies. The facts
were not disputed.

Dr. Folkemer has a long disciplinary history. In 1998, Dr. Folkemer and the Maryland
medical licensing board* entered into a Corrective Action Plan to resolve concerns with Dr.
Folkemer’s medical practice. In 1999, Dr. Folkemer was charged with violating the Corrective
Action Plan. In 2000, Dr. Folkemer entered into a Consent Order with the licensing board to
resolve the charges. He agreed to a stayed suspension and a three year probation. Dr. Folkemer
complied with the terms of probation, and the probation was terminated in 2003. In 2010, Dr.
Folkemer was again charged for failing to meet the appropriate standards of medical care and
with keeping inadequate records. The Board’s charges were based upon a complaint concerning
Dr. Folkemer’s prescribing practices, which involved his prescribing of Xanax, a
benzodiazepine, in combination with the opioid, Methadone, a Schedule II controlled dangerous

substance. As discussed above, Dr. Folkemer entered into a Consent Order with the Board,

> The terms opiates and opioids are commonly interchanged. While technically they are different,
in this case, the records have used them interchangeably to mean Schedule II controlled
dangerous substances, such as oxycodone, OxyContin, hydromorphone, and Percocet. Thus,
while understanding that they are different, Disciplinary Panel A has accepted that they have
been used interchangeably in this case.

* The medical licensing board at the time was called the Board of Physician Quality Assurance.

3
