Folkemer petitioned for termination, Dr. Folkemer had complied with the terms of probation, and
there were no complaints related to the charges.

Probationary condition three of the Consent Order provides:

The Respondent shall not practice pain management medicine and shall
not dispense or prescribe any opiates or benzodiazepine medications to
any patient or individual for longer than three (3) days and only in an
emergency situation.

The Consent Order further provides:

ORDERED that if the Respondent violates any of the terms or conditions
of this Consent Order, the Board, in its discretion, after notice and an
opportunity for an evidentiary hearing before an administrative law
judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings if there is a genuine
dispute as to the underlying material facts, or an opportunity for a show
cause hearing before the Board, may impose any other disciplinary
sanction that the Board may have imposed, including a reprimand,
probation, suspension, revocation and/or monetary fine, said violation
being proven by a preponderance of the evidence.

On July 17, 2014, a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause was issued. !
The Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause charged Dr. Folkemer with violating
probationary condition three of the Consent Order.

On September 10, 2014, a Show Cause Hearing was held before Board Disciplinary
Panel A.? Dr. Folkemer appeared and was represented by counsel, Peter W. Sheehan, Jr.,
Esquire. The administrative prosecutor, Robert J. Gilbert, Assistant Attorney General,
represented the State.

Based upon the information and material presented to Board Disciplinary Panel A, Board
Disciplinary Panel A has determined, by the preponderance of the evidence, that Dr. Folkemer
' Consistent with the terms of the Consent Order, the probation had not been terminated.

? In 2013, under ยง 14-401 of the Health Occupations Article, the Board was divided into two
disciplinary panels to resolve disciplinary cases. On September 9, 2014, Dr. Folkemer, through

his legal counsel, consented to the Show Cause Hearing being held by a Board disciplinary
panel, as opposed to the full Board.

No
