Adolfo Lopez, M.D.

Date: JuneZ7, 2019

Damean W.O. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Adolfo Lopez, M.D.

License Number: D14811

Case Number: 7719-0041

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to permanently SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D14811,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the permanent surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that, pursuant to the December 17, 2018 Order After Show Cause
Hearing, Panel B found that I violated a prior consent order and, as part of the sanction,
ordered that I contact the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program for an initial
evaluation. The evaluation concluded that I am not currently competent to independently
practice medicine. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of this allegation. I
recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that this allegation shall be
treated as proven and that the evaluation supports a conclusion that I violated Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a) (4) (professionally, physically or mentally incompetent).
