Damean W.O. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Adolfo Lopez, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2 :

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
prosecution of the aforementioned allegation. I do not wish to contest this allegation.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving
my right to a hearing to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.),
and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words,
I agree that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my
right to be represented by an attorney before signing this letter permanently surrendering
my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s
actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,
Signature on File

Adolfo Lopez, M.D.
