Patient B

‘The Board relied on statements made by the Respondent to | and in a letter to
“the Board as they related to Patient B. During his EEE eamination, the

Respondent indicated that “[Patient B] was a patient of [the Respondent] in 2000. Their
relationship tured into a sexual relationship in 2005 and continued until 2007 while she was still
a patient of his.” (Bd. Ex. 4, p. 50.) Upon receipt of che report, the Board. requested that
the Respondent provide a written response regarding his admission of having a sexual
relationship with Patient B and requested an explanation as to why he had not disclosed this
relationship during his January 2019 Board interview." (Bd: fix. 5, p 50.)

The Respondent’s excuse for not disclosing the Patient B relationship to the Board -
Interviewer was that he understood the question to apply only to “contemporancous cvents and

relationships.” Ba. Ex, 6, p. 58.) The Respondent continued:

“With regard to [Patient 13], she first appeared as a patient with hypothyroidism in
my office, in about 2000. Shortly thereafler it became apparent that she and I
shared a broad interest in art, and a platonic friendship evolved on that basis. Five
years later, we also had an occasional intimate relationship that extended over
about two years, ending without emotional drama, 1 continued to see her
occasionally as a patient thereafter, and even now, when she is no longer a
patient, we contiie to remain on cordial terms. As { described, my best
interpretation of my answer to the Board’s investigators was that I was in the

mindset of the contemporary period. My relationship with [Patient B] was 13-15
years ago. ‘

(Bd. Ex. 6, p. 59.)
At the hearing the Respondent testified that Patient B stopped being his patient on June
23, 2005 and that there was a “line in the sand, there in 2005, the last visit, and then following

that I’m not exactly sure how long, a month or two or three, we began to socialize.” (Transcript
8 ip 2

 

0 The Interviewer asked, “Did you ever huve any kind of personal relationship with any other pationts you were
treating?” The Respondent replied, “No.”

23
