personal matters.” (Bd. Ex. 2, at p. 13, Transcript, >. 42.)6 J or Bi eestitica that this perception
that the Respondent “can take off his white coat, exit the office, and then have sex with a’ patient
and {the] two are totally unrelated. ..is incongruous and concerning.” (Transcript, p. 43.) Dr.
|| expressed concerns that the Respondent’s responses in the Board interview demonstrated
that he did not consider the potential negative impact of a sexual relationship on the patient and
the power dynamic that the physician exercises over a patient. This was further developed in the
iz Report that was reviewed by Da Dri estified thal the Respondent’s
assessments indicated that he liked to be assertive and in control and presented as “dominant,
forceful, and socially ascendent,” with “narcissistic personality traits.” (Transcript, p. 52; Bd.
Ex. 4, PP. 48, 51.)
Dr. SEB noted that the Respondent had just completed a boundaries and ethics course at
| to going mC and in the self-response boundary assessment, the
Respondent scored “0” which meant that he had answered all twenty-five questions related to
actions considered potential boundary violations as “never” (Transcript, pp. 52-53.) pr
testified that because the Respondent had already acknowledged the sexual relationship with
Patient A prior to this assessment, it demonstrated that he “disassociates from [his| fiduciary role
as'a physician.” (Transcript, p. 54.) She testified that the Respondent did not put his patients’
well-being first, but fulfilled his own self-interest by pursuing sexual relationships with Patient A
and B.
In reviewing Patient B’s medical records provided by the Respondent (Bd. Ex. 7), Dr.
| a it significant that Palient B presented with a history of depression in January 1998
and that her depression, PTSD, and spousal abuse were noted in the record. She noted that there
was only one report early on to Patient B’s primary care physician despite Patient B sceing the

® References to “Transcript” are for the transcript created from this June 8, 2021 hearing,
