Sexual or romantic relationships with former patients are unethical if the
physician uses or exploits trust, knowledge, emotions, or influence derived from
the previously professional relationship, or if a romantic relationship would
otherwise foreseeably harm the individual.

In keeping with a physician’s ethical obligations to avoid inappropriate behavior,
a physician who has reason to believe that nonsexual, nonclinical contact with a

patient may be perccived as or may lead to romantic or sexual contact should
avoid such contact,

Dr BBB applicd this ethical opinion to the Respondent’s case and testified that it was
clear that Patient B was in a trusting relationship with the Respondent because she saw him for at
least eighteen patient visits. She noted that the Respondent had specific knowledge of details
regarding Patient B’s mental health and personal issues which made her vulnerable. The
Respondent stated in his letter to the Board (Bd. Ex. 6) that he ant Patient B became friends first
then developed a sexual relationship, indicating an emotional attachment. Dr BM opines that °
the Respondent wielded influence over Patient B due to the power dif ferential which he could
exploit. (Transcript, p. 65.) pr i noted that even if Patient B was a willing participant or
even initiated the sexual relationship, it would stil! constitute an ethical violation by the
Respondent. (Transcript, p. 67.) She further noted that even if Patient 8 was no longer being
treated by the Respondent at the time they began a sexual relationship, it was still an ethical
violation. (Transcript, pp. 75-76, 79.) mm testified that due to her mental health history
and her abusive spouse, Patient B was vulnerable to manipulation by the Respondent and less
likely to report the abuse by the Respondent for fear of her husband. (Transcript, p. 109.) Dr.
HEE opines that harm to Patient B was foreseeable due to the vulnerability of her mental state
and the volatility of her marriage, causing breach of trust and damage to Patient B’s self-
contidence that could prevent her from seeking further medical care from another doctor.

(Transcript, pp. 112-13.)

16
