that he had not previously had a sexual relationship with any other patients. The advisory letter
and the related allegations were only mentioned in the ALJ’s proposed decision in the summary
of the State’s expert’s testimony and never discussed again. Similarly, Dr. Smith’s statement
during cross-examination that he treated Patient B’s husband only merited a passing mention in a
summary of Dr. Smith’s testimony, and was not the basis for the ALJ’s proposed findings. None
of these facts formed the basis for any of the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact, analysis, or
sanction sections, and they are not considered in the Panel’s analysis in this Order.

The central thrust or “gist” of the ALJ’s analysis below and the Panel’s analysis herein
concerns Dr. Smith’s treatment of family members, his sexual relationship with Patient B, and
the false statements he made during his Board interview. Certainly, the “gist” of the Panel’s
findings reflect the “gist” of charges. See Regan, 355 Md. at 420. Dr. Smith has been given
more than sufficient notice to be able to marshal a defense on those grounds. Reed, 323 Md. at
177. The Panel, therefore, denies Dr. Smith’s exception regarding insufficient notice.

2. Dr. Smith Inappropriately Prescribed to Family Members.

Dr. Smith treated three family members, one inside his field of expertise and two outside
his practice specialty. The Board’s regulations state that “the disciplinary panels may consider
the Principles of Ethics of the American Medical Association.” COMAR 10.32.02.16. The
American Medical Association (“AMA”) Code of Medical Ethics’ Opinion on Physicians
Treating Family Members (Opinion 8.19) and the AMA’s Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 1.2.1
were admitted into evidence and considered by the State’s expert in reaching her conclusion that
Dr. Smith’s conduct was unprofessional.

Ethics Opinion 1.2.1 states “[ijn general, physicians should not treat . . . members of their

own families.” The opinion notes that physicians may treat family members “fi]n emergency
