On cross-examination, the Respondent was asked whether in his thirty or forty years as a
medical professor or chairing a department he ever had a situation where a physician under his '
supervision had an inappropriate relationship with a patient, to which he replied, “Not that I can
recall.” (Transcript, p. 143.) When asked if he was aware that the Board had instituted
regulations regarding sexual misconduct in 2000, the Respondent replied, “I’m aware of that
now,” but also indicated he did not recall ever seeing the information until this case arose.
(Transcript, p. 144.)

The Respondent was asked about Patient A who he began seeing as a patient in 2017. He
admitted to prescribing an opioid for chronic pain and benzodiazepines for post-traumatic
arthritis. The Respondent testified that the sexual relationship began after Patient A came to him
seeking help because her fiancé was jailed, she was alone, and she did not know how to handle
her responsibilities. They had dinner together and Patient A expressed that she was looking for
affection, which the Respondent obliged. The Respondent stated that, “I did not allow our
relationship as developing friends to cloud or interfere [with] the medical relationship.”
(Transcript, p. 155.) When asked specifically if the Respondent believed he could have a sexual .
relationship with a patient as long as it did not interfere with the professional relationship the
Respondent stated, “ [w]ell that was certainly my intention, to keep the two separate and I think I
did, But I understand that in spite of that, the regulations are very negative in this respect.”
(Transcript, p. 157.)

The Respondent also revealed during cross-examination that he saw Patient B’s husband
as a patient for a diabetes consultation during the same time frame that he and Patient B were
sexually involved. (Transcript, p. 188.) Patient B brought her husband to see the Respondent,

and when questioned about this, he stated, “[i]t was not unprofessional.” (Id.)

21
