In 2009, Dr. Smith treated Family Member 3? for a serious medical condition that was
outside his area of expertise, including prescribing and refilling medications. He also prescribed
medications for potential conditions such as malaria, diarrhea, and motion-sickness when she
travelled.

In 2017 and 2018, Dr. Smith saw Patient A fifteen times for chronic pain and anxiety.
Dr. Smith prescribed Patient A oxycodone and benzodiazepines without obtaining her past
medical records. At some point he began a relationship with Patient A that involved some sexual
intimacy, but no sexual intercourse. The Board learned of this relationship from Dr. Smith as
part of an investigation that stemmed from three complaints, in 2018, related to Dr. Smith’s
prescribing. As part of that investigation, Board staff asked Dr. Smith if he had any kind of
personal relationship with any other patient, and Dr. Smith falsely answered “No, mmh-mmh.”

Based on standard of care and recordkeeping pertaining to Dr. Smith’s prescribing of
Controlled Dangerous Substances (CDS) to several patients including Patient A and his sexual
relationship with Patient A, the Board and Dr. Smith entered into a Consent Order in 2019 in
which Dr. Smith was reprimanded, permanently prohibited from prescribing CDS, placed on
probation for a year with a referral to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(MPRP), and required to take courses in boundaries and recordkeeping. MPRP referred Dr.
Smith to an assessment program (the “Program”) for a fitness-for-duty evaluation. As part of the
evaluation, Dr. Smith was asked questions related to his treatment of family members and his
sexual relationship with patients. Dr. Smith informed the Program that he had provided medical
care and prescribed medications for his family members and that he had a sexual relationship
while treating Patient B, information that he failed to disclose to the Board during its previous
investigation. The Board requested a written response to his new disclosure that he had a sexual

* This person was in a close quasi-family relationship with Dr. Smith.

3
