Respondent until at least June 2005 and the records abruptly end with no discharge letter and

with the plan that the patient will return for future care. pr. ii noted this was a clear

indication that the doctor-patient relationship was not terminated. (Transcript, pp. 55-60.) Dr.
ME esiivica that the patient record, the ia report, and the Respondent’s letter to the Board
(Bd. Ex. 7) demonstrate that the Respondent had an ongoing sexual relationship with Patient B
that began in the doctor-patient context when the parties discussed art duting medical visits,
which led to a relationship outside the office that developed into a sexual relationship while
Patient B remained an active patient. Dr sated that in her expert apinion, the Respondent
“engaged in sexual misconduct with Patient B and that represents unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine.” (Transcript, p. 60.)

Dr. discussed how the Respondent's actions were a clear violation of the American
Medical Association (AMA) Cade of Medical Ethics and related Opinions. Dr. RR reviewed
the three AMA Ethical Opinions submitted by the Board: Opinion 8.19 — SelfTreatment.or
Treatment of Immediate Family Members (id. Ex. 10); Opinion 1.2.1 — Related to Boundaries -
Self-T'reatment or Treatment of Immediate Family Members (Bd. Ex. 11); Opinion 9.1.1 —
Romantic or Sexual Relationships with Patients (Bd. Ex. 12).

Opinion 9,1,1 (3d. Ex, 12) states:

_ Romantic or sexual interactions between physicians and patients that concurrently

occur with the patient physician relationship are unethical, Such interactions

detract from the goals of the patient-physician relationship and may exploit the

vulnerability of the patient, compromise the physician’s ability to make objective

Judgements about the patient’s health care, and ultimately be detrimental to the

patient’s well-being.

A physician must terminate the patient-physician relationship before initi ating a
dating, romantic, or sexual relationship with a patient.

Likewise, sexual or romantic relationships between a physician and a former
patient may be unduly influenced by the previous physician-patient rel ationship.

1S
