Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair, and Members of the Board
RE: Mansour G. Panah, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

due to my neurocognitive condition.

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of this matter and
that on October 8, 2013, issued disciplinary charges under Board Case Numbers
2006-0475 and 2013-0854, alleging that | violated the probationary conditions
set forth in the Consent Order, dated May 31, 2011, to which | was subject, and
that | violated the following provisions of the Act under Md. Health Occ. Code
Ann. § 14-404(a): (3) Is guilty of: (ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine; (4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; and (18)
Practices medicine with an unauthorized person or aids an unauthorized person
in the practice of medicine. A copy of the Board's charges, dated October 8,
2013, is attached hereto and incorporated herein. The Charges were based in
part on neuropsychological testing | underwent that determined that | was
cognitively impaired.

| participated in a formal evidentiary hearing before the Office of
Administrative Hearings, which resulted in the issuance of a Proposed Decision,
which is now pending before the Board. | wish to make it clear that | have
voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Letter of Surrender to
avoid further prosecution of the aforementioned disciplinary charges and, in
equal measure, because of my cognitive impairment. | acknowledge that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure, the allegations that were set forth in the
Board's disciplinary charges will be treated as if proven, and that | admit that |
violated the probationary conditions set forth in the Consent Order, dated May
31, 2011, and that | violated Md. Health Occ. Code Ann. §§ 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (4)
and (18).

| acknowledge that | underwent a formal evidentiary hearing in which
| was given the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and to make summation and arguments. |
understand that by executing this permanent letter of surrender, | am waiving
any right to contest the Board's disciplinary charges, including all substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, and the right to appeal.

| affirm that | have not practiced medicine since the Board summarily
suspended my medical license on October 8, 2013. | do not maintain a medical
office and have no hospital privileges in the State of Maryland.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards and the National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and
Protection Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry,
that | have surrendered my license in lieu of further disciplinary action under the
