Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair, and Members of the Board
RE: Mansour G. Panah, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Act. | also understand that in the event | would apply for licensure in any form
in any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender and the underlying
investigative documents may be released or published by the Board to the same
extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
State Gov't Code Ann. § 10-611 et seq. (2009 Repl. Vol. and 2013 Supp.), and
that this Letter of Surrender shall constitute a disciplinary action by a Disciplinary
Panel of the Board.

| affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, | will present to
the Board my original Maryland medical license number D15506, and my most
recent wallet-sized renewal card. | acknowledge that on or before the date the
Board accepts this Letter of Surrender, | shall deliver to the Board: (1) any and
all Medical Assistance prescription forms in my possession; (2) any prescription
forms and pads in my possession; (3) any prescription forms or pads on which
my name and Drug Enforcement Administration Registration Number are
imprinted; and (4) within thirty (30) days of signing this Letter of Surrender, | will
destroy any controlled dangerous substances in my possession, other than those
prescribed by a licensed physician for me, and furnish proof to the Board that the
controlled dangerous substances have been destroyed.

| acknowledge that on or before the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, | shall deliver to the Division of Drug Control, 4201 Patterson Avenue,
1st Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215, my Maryland Controlled Dangerous
Substances Certificate; and shall deliver to the United States Drug Enforcement
Administration my Drug Enforcement Administration Registration Card.

| further recognize and agree that by tendering this Letter of Surrender
that my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, | agree
that | have no right to reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland. | further agree that the Board, or a Disciplinary Panel of the Board, is
not obligated to consider any application for licensure that | might file at a future
date and that | waive any hearing rights that | might possess regarding any such
application.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that |
have been advised of my right to be represented by the attorney of my choice
throughout proceedings before the Board, or a Disciplinary Panel of the Board,
including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. | understand both the nature of the Board’s actions and this Letter of
Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. | voluntarily choose to
surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms and
