Parviz Sahandy, M.D.

Date: | , _ al

Arun Bhandari, M.D. Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Parviz Sahandy, M.D. License Number: D15915
Case Number: 7718-0079

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2018 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D15915, effective in 90 days
from today. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that I entered into a Consent Order with Panel A of the Board on
January 12, 2018 that found that I was guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine and found that I violated the Board’s regulations on sexual
impropriety. A copy of the Consent Order is attached as Attachment 1. On February 5,
2019, Panel A issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause alleging that
I violated the Consent Order by failing to successfully complete a boundaries course. A
copy of the Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause is attached as
Attachment 2. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the violation and because I wish to retire from
the practice of medicine.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the Violation of Consent
