Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Parviz Sahandy, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Order. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the allegations of
my failure to comply with the Consent Order will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to
appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in
any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may
impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public
safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before
signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand
both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that
I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv trily-vours.

Signature on File

Parviz Sahandy, M.D.
