immediately summarily suspend Respondent's license
pursuant to the requirements of State Gov't ยง 10-226 and may
impose any further conditions for the suspension;

(4) Within six (6) months, the Respondent shall successfully
complete a Board disciplinary panel-approved course in
maintaining appropriate psychiatrist-patient boundaries. The
panel will not accept a course taken over the Internet. The
course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical
education credits required for license renewal. The
Respondent must provide documentation to the panel that the
Respondent has successfully completed the course.

AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, after ONE (1) YEAR, the Respondent may
submit a written petition to the Disciplinary Panel A requesting termination of probation.
There shall be no early termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the
probation may be terminated through an order of the Board or Panel A. The Respondent
may be required to appear before the Board or Panel A to discuss her petition for
termination. The Board or Panel A will grant the petition to terminate the probation if the
Respondent has complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and there are
no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
of probation or this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before the Board or a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of

probation or this Consent Order, the Board or disciplinary panel may reprimand the
