Health Occ. § 14-101(0). Dr. Egbert presented no expert testimony to contradict this opinion.
The Panel finds Dr. Silverman’s testimony persuasive.

Further, Dr. Egbert stated in his letter to the Board Senior Compliance Analyst:

My work for the Final Exit Network was to evaluate each person’s request to

hasten death. I received their medical records and a copy of their letters stating

why life had become only suffering and was no longer bearable. /t was my job to

evaluate the care they were receiving and occasionally there were suggestions

made to improve their care. \ had several psychologists for consultation. No one

has suggested that our patients were not suffering severely.
Evaluation of medical care for improved care is one example that demonstrates that his role in
reviewing medical records was in the medical realm, Another example given by Dr. Egbert at
his interview concerned an applicant who wanted to commit suicide because of her pain. After
his review of the file, he determined that her pain was not being properly treated. He advised
the patient that she tell her doctor that she needed more pain medicine, and “this doctor from
Hopkins [Dr. Egbert], will be glad to tell him how to do it right.” As a result of his medical
advice, the applicant withdrew her application for FEN. Such evaluation and advice are
illustrative of the way in which Dr. Egbert’s review of patient files in this context was medical in
nature and within the practice of medicine. Even if the review were not squarely under the
definition of “practicing medicine,” it was certainly “in the practice of medicine” under the broad
interpretation the Court of Appeal applied in Banks. 354 Md. at 66.

Dr. Egbert noted that he sought additional information if he believed that the medical
records were incomplete. Additionally, Dr. Egbert made referrals to psychologists when he was
uncomfortable evaluating the psychology of the patients. Dr. Egbert explained that with regards

to the psychology of patients “[t]he difficulty was that I am not a psychiatrist.” In so doing, Dr.

Egbert used his medical expertise, and when he did not have requisite medical expertise, he
