of the FEN screening process. The ALJ did not deem Dr. Egbert’s presence or his assistance in
the suicides to be “in the practice of medicine.” The ALJ recommended that Dr. Egbert’s
medical license be revoked.

On January 8, 2014, Dr. Egbert filed exceptions (dated January 7, 2014) to the ALJ’s
Proposed Decision. The State also filed exceptions and a response to Dr. Egbert’s exceptions on
January 16, 2014. Both parties appeared before Disciplinary Panel B (the “Panel”) of the Board
for an oral exceptions hearing on March 26, 2014.

FINDINGS OF FACT

The Panel adopts the findings of fact numbered 1-33 proposed by the ALJ (Attached as
Exhibit 1).! The facts, as described by the ALJ, and summarized below, are largely undisputed.
Dr. Egbert was the Medical Director for FEN, an organization dedicated to supporting and aiding
non-terminally ill persons to hasten their deaths. Individuals who wanted the organization’s help
to commit suicide would submit to FEN an application with their medical records and a
statement explaining why they wished to end their lives.

As the Medical Director of FEN, Dr. Egbert received each applicant’s medical record and
determined whether the applicant’s request for an assisted suicide would be accepted.” Dr.
Egbert explained that he reviewed the medical records to determine: (1) whether the applicant
accurately identified the source of his or her suffering, (2) whether the applicant’s suffering was
“horrible,” and (3) whether the medical treatment that the applicant was receiving was adequate.
In at least one circumstance, Dr. Egbert rejected an application because the applicant’s pain was
' The ALJ’s Findings of Fact incorporated twenty stipulated facts (numbered 1-20) agreed to by the
parties and thirteen additional factual findings (numbered 21-33). ; ;

The applications were reviewed by the “medical evaluation committee.” That committee consisted of
professionals in various disciplines, each needing to be licensed in their discipline, and at least one

layperson. As the medical director, Dr. Egbert made the final decision for each applicant.
2
