4. Rehearsal and Procedure Aiding Suicide is In the Practice of Medicine.

Dr. Egbert’s review of the patients’ medical records cannot be separated from his conduct
in rehearsing the process for suicide, including instructions on how to use the materials, walking
patients through the steps of the suicide, and holding the patients’ hands during the suicide.

The ALJ explained that “participation in assisted suicide is antithetical to the long-
standing or prevailing purpose of medical practice to treat and heal patients and/or to make
patients comfortable.” ALJ Proposed Decision at 19. The ALJ stated that assisting suicide was
not for the purpose of healing or relieving patients’ symptoms of ailments, and, therefore, should
not be considered in the practice of medicine.

The Panel disagrees with the ALJ’s rationale on this point because the ALJ disregarded
caselaw regarding the practice of medicine. Physicians are often found guilty of unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine for acts that are not facially related to the practice of
medicine or are antithetical to the practice of medicine. Specifically, Maryland courts have
found the practice of medicine to include sexually harassing hospital co-workers (Banks, 354
Md. at 76-77), sexual liaisons with patients (Finucan, 380 Md. 601), lying on peer reviews
(Cornfeld, 174 Md. App. at 462), and lying on a renewal application. (Kim, 423 Md. at 527).
Though none of these cases directly involved a physician acting to treat or heal patients they
each were considered within the practice of medicine. Based on this caselaw, the Panel rejects
the ALJ’s reasoning.

The State’s expert, Dr. Silverman, testified that by holding the hands of the patients while
they committed suicide, Dr. Egbert provided emotional support to the patient and ensured that
the hood was not displaced because of an involuntary spasm of the patients’ arms. Dr. Silverman

opined that both — providing emotional support and ensuring the hood stay on — were the role of

ll
