Md. App. 103 (1993)). Lying to or misleading other physicians, medical examiners, and/or the
police is a dishonest act, see Cornfeld, 174 Md. App. at 479, and is unbecoming a medical
professional in good standing. See Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248.

2. Dr. Egbert’s Conduct was Unprofessional because it was Contrary to the
American Medical Association’s Code of Medical Ethics.

Dr. Egbert’s actions are contrary to the American Medical Association’s Code of Medical
Ethics, Opinion 2.211. “[A]llowing physicians to participate in assisted suicide would cause
more harm than good. . . . Instead of participating in assisted suicide, physicians must
aggressively respond to the needs of patients at the end of life. . . . Patients near the end of life
must continue to receive emotional support... .” See State’s Exhibit 25. The Panel concludes
that performing actions that have been rejected by the AMA’s Code of Medical Ethics is
evidence of unprofessional conduct. See Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248.

3. Dr. Egbert’s Conduct was Unprofessional because it is Illegal under
Maryland Law.

Assisting suicide is a criminal act under Section 3-102 of the Criminal Law Article. That

Section provides as follows:

With the purpose of assisting another individual to commit or attempt to commit
suicide, an individual may not:

(1) by coercion, duress, or deception, knowingly cause another individual to
commit suicide or attempt to commit suicide;

(2) knowingly provide the physical means by which another individual commits
or attempts to commit suicide with knowledge of that individual’s intent to use
the physical means to commit suicide; or

(3) knowingly participate in a physical act by which another individual commits
or attempts to commit suicide.

Dr. Egbert participated in the patients’ physical act of committing suicide, by holding down the
patients’ hands. Committing this illegal act is further evidence that Dr. Egbert’s actions were

unprofessional. See Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 248.
15
