throughout the country on difficult cases (he is and he does, and people do come

across his name on the Internet). As an alternative, the patient may say that other

doctors have asked for information the patient can’t recall so he/she has started

keeping copies of records.

Again, unlike McDonnell, the Respondent is performing a traditional function of a
physician, requesting medical documents from another physician, ostensibly, to review those
documents for the purpose of pain management. Although the Respondent’s actions may not have
occurred within the context of a medical facility, as was the case in Banks and Finucan, his
physician-related actions were inextricably linked to the traditional duties and actions of a
physician. Indeed, it is reasonable to conclude that if a layperson held himself out as a physician,
reviewed and evaluated medical documents, and prescribed additional medical treatment, one could
reasonably interpret that individual’s action as practicing medicine without a license.

Ultimately, I find that the Respondent’s acts including reviewing patients’ medical records,
determining whether they would benefit from additional medical treatment or determining whether
their condition could not benefit from additional medical treatment constituted the practice of
medicine. I further find that holding himself out as a physician to whom other physicians could send
patients’ medical documents, constituted the practice of medicine.

Unprofessional Conduct

The term “unprofessional conduct” is not defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act.
The Court of Appeals has, however, considered that term, in the context of the Maryland Medical
Practice Act, and it determined that “unprofessional conduct” refers to conduct that breaches rules
or ethical codes of professional conduct, or is conduct unbecoming a member in good standing in
the profession. Finucan, 380 Md. at 593.

Much of the State’s position in this case focused on the fact that the Respondent
participated in assisted suicide, and that, generally, his actions were unprofessional. Dr.

Silverman testified that physicians bear an extremely important role when it comes to end-of-life

23
