issues. Often, patients who are struggling with end-of-life considerations turn to physicians for
guidance and explanation of their options. According to Dr. Silverman, the physician fulfills a
significant role in the psyche of their patients and, often, patients’ families who are making
decisions about the patient’s end-of-life choices. The physician, opined Dr. Silverman, is charged
with providing the patient and his or her family with options that will result in a dignified death,
with as little pain as possible. The Respondent, however, inappropriately used his authority as a
physician to guide, or at the very least, provide the means for patients to commit suicide. This,
explained Dr. Silverman, is in discord with the primary tenet of medicine — to do no harm.

The State also argued that the Respondent acted unprofessionally because he admittedly
knew that helium was not detectable in the human body and he was aware that the death
certificate for the FEN’s assisted-suicide patients would reflect an erroneous cause of death by
the Medical Examiner and on the death certificate.

As Ihave stated, the actual participation in assisted suicide and the advocacy of assisted
suicide, does not constitute the practice of medicine as those actions are antithetical to the
practice of medicine and are illegal in the State of Maryland. Therefore, generally, whether the
Respondent’s actions were unprofessional within the context of his actual participation in the
assisted suicide of the FEN’s patients is of no consequence because the unprofessional acts must
occur in the practice of medicine.

Because I have found that the participation in assisted suicide, alone, does not constitute
the practice of medicine, I similarly find that the consequences of the Respondent's participation
in assisted suicide can not constitute the practice of medicine. That is, although the Respondent
knew that the patients’ death certificates would reflect an inaccurate cause of death, although
there may be legal implications to that knowledge, his knowledge alone can not create a nexus

between the Respondent’s actions and the practice of medicine. Again, the entire goal of assisted

24
