2].

letter from the member “stating why life had become only suffering and was no longer
bearable.” It was the Respondent’s responsibility to “evaluate the care they were receiving.”
(State Ex. 1; State Ex. 17).

On April 12, 2012, Heather McLaughlin, Board Lead Compliance Analyst, conducted an
interview of the Respondent. During the interview, the Respondent reported that he
reviewed the medical records of all of the members who solicited the Organization for its
assistance with suicide. When Ms. Laughlin asked the Respondent to further explain how he
evaluated individual patients, the Respondent replied as follows:

So, for example, if they want - - I’ll give you a good example that we’ve had.
A patient who had terrible pain and I realized that she was not being taken care of,
Just from the paperwork. All patients had to send in their medical records so that I
could read their medical records.

So I called the patient up and said, you’re not getting pain care, you know.
And she said, tell me about it. So she was quite upset about it, and I said, well, why
don’t you - - this is a long conversation that lam speeding up - - but why don’t you
tell your doctors that this doctor from Hopkins will be glad to tell him how to do it
right.

So - - and that was a bit of an overstatement of my credentials. But - - so I
called her up about a month later. She didn’t call back or anything. And she said, no,
I’m not going to die now, I’m okay, I’ve been taken care of, I’m okay. It’s tolerable,
the pain is tolerable. And I said well you jacked up the dose of the morphine then. I
said, did you tell him that? And she said, yes. And I said, you’re getting the proper
dose.

(State Ex. 21).

28.

29.

30.

The Organization requires patients to obtain the helium tanks and bag on his or her own.
The Organization’s training manual stresses that Exit Guides are prohibited from obtaining
this equipment for the patient.

Senior Exit Guides and sometimes a second Guide are present at the death event and in most
cases, dispose of the helium tanks and other equipment used for the patient’s suicide.

The Respondent was an Exit Guide in at least six Suicides, including the suicides of Member

A., amale (DOD: May 25, 2008); Member B., a female. (DOD: November 20, 2008);
