was not treating the patients at the time of his sexual encounters with them. The Court of
Appeals disagreed.

Relying on its decision in Banks, the Court reiterated its refusal to apply a technical or
narrow definition of the “practice of medicine” and concluded that “Finucan used his
professional skills and his knowledge of his three female patients’ personal and familial
situations to play upon their emotional vulnerabilities, even if they facially consented to sexual
relationships. Finucan, 380 Md. at 596. Ultimately, the Court explained that conduct “may
indicate an unfitness to practice medicine if it raises reasonable concerns that an individual
abused, or may abuse, the status of being a physician in such a way as to harm patients or
diminish standing of the medical profession in the eyes of a reasonable member of the general
public.” Jd. at 601.

The Court of Special Appeals echoed the Banks and Finucan Court’s reasoning of what
constitutes conduct in the practice of medicine in Cornfeld v. State Bd. of Physicians, 174 Md.
App. 456, cert. denied, 400 Md. 647 (2007). In that case, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City
affirmed the Board’s determination that the Appellant physician had engaged in unprofessional
conduct in violation of section 14-404(a)(3) of the Health Occupations Article when he made
false statements to hospital peer reviewers and Board investigators related to the mechanical
settings for a surgical instrument he used on a patient. In making its determination, the Court did
not simply categorize Dr. Cornfeld’s behavior as improper because he was in the hospital setting.
To the contrary, the Court recognized that like McDonnell, the conduct at issue took the form of
statements made or actions taken during an adjudicatory review or proceeding. However, unlike
the case in McDonnell, in which the focus or the impetus of the physician’s acts were to prevail

in an adjudicatory hearing generally unrelated to his practice of medicine, Dr. Cornfeld’s false or

17
