suicide is wholly divorced from the treatment of patients and the practice of medicine.
Accordingly, although the result of his actions would be considered unprofessional, and subject
to sanction under section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) if his actions occurred within the context of his
“practice of medicine,” because his actions in physically participating in the assisted suicide
cannot be classified as the practice of medicine, its result cannot be so classified either.’

Ihave, however, determined that two aspects of the Respondent’s actions as the Medical
Director of FEN constituted the practice of medicine — that is, 1) the Respondent’s review and
evaluation of medical records and the resulting prescribed action following that review; and, 2)
the Respondent’s act of holding himself out as a physician to whom other physicians could
transmit member’s medical records for review. I now turn to whether the Respondent’s actions
related to those two aspects of medical practice were unprofessional.

Medical document review and evaluation

The Respondent does not dispute that he reviewed and evaluated the medical records for
patients who sought FEN’s assistance with terminating their lives. He also acknowledges that
after that review, he occasionally made “suggestions to improve their care.” (State Ex. 1). In
those instances when the Respondent made suggestions to improve care, I cannot determine that
such suggestions were improper or unprofessional because the State has offered no evidence
regarding those patients. However, it is also undisputed — and supported amply by the evidence —
that in many cases, after the Respondent reviewed the medical documentation of members, he
determined that those members were suffering sufficiently to qualify for assisted suicide.
Essentially, in his role as a physician, the Respondent rendered a medical determination and

sanctioned a “remedy” to the patients’ condition that was wholly antithetical to the purpose and

7 Furthermore, if the Board wished to pursue the Respondent for knowingly causing the filing of a false medical
report, it could have charged him with violating section 14-404(a)(12) of the Health Occupations Article, which it
did not do.

25
