misleading statements directly related to a procedure he had recently performed on a patient and
shifted blame from himself to other hospital staff.

The Court of Special Appeals affirmed the Circuit Court, explaining that “the touchstone
for determining whether misconduct occurred ‘in the practice of medicine’ must be whether it is
‘sufficiently intertwined with patient care’ to pose a threat to patients or the medical profession.”
Id. at 474 (quoting Banks, 354 Md. at 76-77).

In this vein, the Cornfeld Court echoed the Court of Appeals’ reasoning in McDonnell
that the nature and effect of a particular act of professional misconduct determines whether it
occurred in the practice of medicine, and that “[m]isconduct reasonably may be considered to be
in the practice of medicine when it ‘relates to the effective delivery of patient care.’” Cornfeld,
174 Md. App. at 477-78. Considering the Court of Appeals’ rejection of the “narrow view” of
the practice of medicine in Banks and Finucan, the Court of Special Appeals found Dr.
Cornfeld’s actions sufficiently tied to the practice of medicine to warrant the charges by the
Board.

The Court of Appeals amplified its interpretation of “in the practice of medicine” in Kim
v. Md. State Bd. of Physicians, 423 Md. 523 (2011), in which the Court of Appeals affirmed the
Board’s determination that the physician’s actions occurred in the practice of medicine when he
willfully failed to report the pendency of a malpractice action on his application for renewal of
his license. Relying on Finucan, the Kim Court explained that ‘in the practice of medicine’
applies not only to diagnosing and treating patients, but also to ‘misconduct relating to the
effective delivery of patient care.” Jd. at 541 (quoting Finucan, 380 Md. at 597).

It is clear that the Respondent's actions in this case do not fit neatly into any of the
scenarios at issue in McDonnell, Banks, Finucan, Cornfeld or Kim. As I have stated, the

Respondent’s participation in assisted suicide, while illegal, does not, alone, constitute the

18
