2012 interview with Ms. McLaughlin, as the Medical Director for FEN, he was assigned to review
“complicated cases.” When Ms. McLaughlin asked the Respondent to elaborate, he gave the
following example of a “complicated case”:

A patient who had terrible pain and I realized that she was not being taken care of,

just from the paperwork. All patients had to send in their medical records so that I

could read their medical records.

So I called the patient up and said, you’re not getting pain care, you know.

And she said, tell me about it. So she was quite upset about it, and I said, well, why

don’t you - - this is a long conversation that I am speeding up - - but why don’t you

tell your doctors that this doctor from Hopkins will be glad to tell him how to do it

right.

So - - and that was a bit of an overstatement of my credentials. But - - so I

called her up about a month later. She didn’t call back or anything. And she said, no,

I’m not going to die now, I’m okay, I’ve been taken care of, I’m okay. It’s tolerable,

the pain is tolerable. And I said well you jacked up the dose of the morphine then. I

said, did you tell him that? And she said, yes. And I said, you’re getting the proper

dose.

As this passage demonstrates, the Respondent advised this patient to tell her practicing
physician that he, a doctor from Johns Hopkins Hospital,® had advised her to increase her pain
medication. In other words, the Respondent held himself out not only as the Medical Director of
FEN, but as a physician. He recommended a course of treatment, advised the patient to convey
his prescribed treatment to her treating physician, and stood prepared to interact with her
physician in support of his prescription of increased pain medication. The Respondent’s actions
in reviewing medical records to determine whether patients were sufficiently suffering, and
diagnosing the patient’s pain and prescribing increased pain medication fall squarely within the
context of the practice of medicine. Unlike McDonnell, in which the Respondent’s actions of
threatening a witness in a malpractice case was ancillary to the diagnosis, treatment, or care of ,

patients, the Respondent's actions, although performed as the Medical Director of an

organization that is generally antithetical to the practice of medicine, still bears the hallmark of

 

° The Respondent indicated in his statement to Ms. McLaughlin that his representation that he was a doctor at Johns
Hopkins Hospital was inaccurate. Indeed, the Respondent presented no evidence that he is a physician working at
Johns Hopkins Hospital.

20
