life, particularly, if that individual has been diagnosed with a degenerative or painful medical
condition, could be interpreted as the removal of “any physical, mental, or emotional ailment or
supposed ailment of an individual.” That is, upon the patient’s death, he or she would be relieved
of the medical condition; however, such an interpretation of section 14-101 is implausible and
incompatible with the definition of “practic[ing] medicine.”

The statutory construction doctrine of ejusdem generis dictates that "when general words
in a statute follow the designation of particular things or classes of subjects or persons, the
general words will usually be construed to include only those things or persons of the same class
or general nature as those specifically mentioned." Haile v. State, 431 Md. 448, 458 (Md. 2013).
Section 14-101 defines the of “practice medicine” to include the “ending of a human pregnancy.”
Certainly, the inclusion of what has been and continues to be a controversial medical practice
was intended to make clear that the ending of human pregnancy is acknowledged as a legal form
of authorized medical practice in the State of Maryland. Pursuant to the doctrine of ejusdem
generis, therefore, the omission of assisted suicide, which is prohibited under Maryland law? and
certainly controversial, makes it clear that the legislature did not intend the definition of
“practice of medicine” to include assisted suicide.

However, the fact that participation in assisted suicide, generally, does not constitute the
practice of medicine does not necessarily merit the conclusion that any act that a physician
undertakes with the goal of assisting an individual or individuals achieve death also must be
deemed as outside of the practice of medicine. Indeed, Maryland courts have made it clear that
the actions of a physician constitute the practice of medicine when there is a nexus between the
physician’s actions and the provision of treatment to patients. McDonnell v. Comm’n on Medical

Discipline, 301 Md. 426 (1984); Finucan v. Md. Bd. of Physician Quality Assur., 380 Md. 577

 

3 See Md. Code Annotated, Crim. Law § 3-102 (2012).

13
