were not diagnosed with terminal illnesses. Nevertheless, the Respondent reviewed these
patients’ records and determined that they were eligible for assisted suicide. The fact that the
Respondent occasionally determined that some individuals would benefit from additional
medical or psychological treatment, but determined that others could not benefit from such
treatment, merits the conclusion that he undertook a medical analysis for many, if not each of the
patients he approved for assisted suicide. I find that the Respondent’s review of the medical
documents resulting in assisted suicide cannot be extracted from his review of medical
documents resulting in further medical treatment because at the time of review, either option was
available. The fact that the Respondent ultimately approved assisted suicide in many of the cases
does not take his review of the medical documents outside of the practice of medicine.
Therefore, I find that each time the Respondent reviewed medical records to determine whether
they would be accepted for assistance with suicide, he engaged in the practice of medicine.

It is also clear that the Respondent held himself out as a practicing physician to patients
and other physicians for the purpose of obtaining medical records. According to the FEN training
manual, patients were advised that they could have their medical records sent to the Respondent,
a doctor, if they were uncomfortable obtaining the documents themselves. Particularly, the FEN
training manual provided the following regarding obtaining medical records:

Patients frequently express concern over obtaining their medical records. They’ re

entitled to these records by law, but it isn’t unusual for them to say that their doctor

will question the need for the records and they’ re reluctant to approach a doctor they

don’t feel confident about. Sometimes doctors will mail or fax records only to

another doctor. If that should be the case, as a last resort, tell the patient to ask the .

doctor to send the records to:

Lawrence Egbert, MD, MPH

814 Powers Street

Baltimore, MD 21211

The record can also be faxed to him . . . . If a doctor questions why the patient is

sending records to Baltimore, tell him/her to say that Dr. Egbert is a specialist in
pain management (maybe the patient found him on the Internet) and consults

22
