The rules of statutory construction been often presented by the Maryland Court of

Appeals as follows:

The cardinal rule of statutory interpretation is to ascertain and effectuate the real
and actual intent of the Legislature. A court's primary goal in interpreting
statutory language is to discern the legislative purpose, the ends to be
accomplished, or the evils to be remedied by the statutory provision under
scrutiny.

To ascertain the intent of the General Assembly, we begin with the normal, plain
meaning of the statute. If the language of the statute is unambiguous and clearly
Consistent with the statute's apparent purpose, our inquiry as to the legislative
intent ends ordinarily and we apply the statute as written without resort to other
rules of construction. We neither add nor delete language so as to reflect an intent
not evidenced in the plain and unambiguous language of the statute, and we do
not construe a statute with forced or subtle interpretations that limit or extend its
application.

We, however, do not read statutory language in a vacuum, nor do we confine
strictly our interpretation of a statute's plain language to the isolated section alone.
Rather, the plain language must be viewed within the context of the statutory
scheme to which it belongs, considering the purpose, aim, or policy of the
Legislature in enacting the statute. We presume that the Legislature intends its
enactments to operate together as a consistent and harmonious body of law, and,
thus, we seek to reconcile and harmonize the parts of a statute, to the extent
possible consistent with the statute's object and scope. Where the words of a
statute are ambiguous and subject to more than one reasonable interpretation, or
where the words are clear and unambiguous when viewed in isolation, but
become ambiguous when read as part of a larger statutory scheme, a court must
resolve the ambiguity by searching for legislative intent in other indicia, including
the history of the legislation or other relevant sources intrinsic and extrinsic to the
legislative process. In resolving ambiguities, a court considers the structure of the
statute, how it relates to other laws, its general purpose and relative rationality and
legal effect of various competing constructions.

In every case, the statute must be given a reasonable interpretation, not one that is
absurd, illogical or incompatible with common sense.

Gardner v. State, 420 Md. 1, 8-9 (Md. 2011) (internal quotation marks and citations
omitted).

A clear reading of section 14-101 reveals that the practice of medicine focuses on
providing care for patients with the goal of healing those patients, or relieving them from

symptoms of an ailment or condition. Arguably, assisting an individual with ending his or her
ymp guably, 8 &

12
