In Banks, a physician was charged with sexually harassing three female colleagues while
on extended duty at a hospital. The Board determined that each of the instances of sexual
harassment occurred while the physician was engaged in the practice of medicine “because his
presence in the hospital and on-call status clearly involved more than merely a general or
associative relationship with his practice as a physician.” Banks, 354 Md. at 66. The physician
appealed and the Circuit Court for Carroll County, Maryland, affirmed the Board’s
determination, reasoning that section 14-403(a)(3) did not require face-to-face dealing with
patients to constitute the practice of medicine. Rather, because the physician was on his shift at
the hospital, in uniform, and present at the hospital for the sole purpose of practicing medicine,
the physician’s acts occurred in the practice of medicine. Id. at 66.

The Court of Special Appeals reversed the Circuit Court regarding two of the instances of
sexual harassment because they did not occur “during the diagnosis, care, or treatment of
patients.” Banks v. Bd. or Physicians Quality Assur., 116 Md. App. 249, 262 (1996).*

The Court of Appeals granted certiorari on the matter and reversed the Court of Special
Appeals decision with regard to the two instances of sexual harassment,° reasoning that

[t]he Board could reasonably hold that Dr. Banks’ conduct of sexually harassing

hospital employees was within the practice of medicine because he was on duty

and in the working areas of the hospital. When on duty, Dr. Banks was

responsible for admitting patients, caring for patients and assisting in the

operating room and emergency department. He was not free to leave, and he was

expected to be available at all times. When Dr. Banks was on duty he was there

for the purpose of practicing medicine; i.e. for the ‘diagnosis, care, or treatment of
patients.’

 

‘The Court affirmed the Circuit Court’s finding regarding one instance of harassment because it occurred as the
physician was using an addressograph machine and requesting a patient record when the harassment occurred. As
both of those actions were “necessary procedures and . . . part of treatment of the patient,” the Court of Special
Appeals determined that the harassment occurred in the course of the practice of medicine. Id. at 263.

> The Court of Appeals affirmed the finding that the third instance of sexual harassment occurred in the practice of
medicine.

15
