goal of medicine — to do no harm. I find that the Respondent's action to approve assisted suicide
“abused .. . the status of being a physician in such a way as to harm patients or diminish
standing of the medical profession in the eyes of a reasonable member of the general public.”
Finucan, 380 Md. at 601.

For the foregoing reasons, I find that the only plausible interpretation of the Respondent’s
review and evaluation of medical records and sanctioning assisted suicide is that it was
egregiously unprofessional. He is therefore, subject to sanction under section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of
the Health Occupations Article.

Holding self out as a physician to whom other physicians could send patients’ medical
documents

As I have stated, the Respondent held himself out as a practicing physician to patients
and other physicians for the purpose of obtaining medical records. According to the FEN training
manual, when patients were reluctant to request medical documents from their physicians, or
when their physicians would only fax medical documents to another physician, those patients
were advised that they could have their physicians send their medical documents to the
Respondent in his capacity as a physician. The Exit Guide also advises that patients could tell
their physicians that the Respondent is a specialist in pain management.

Essentially, therefore, the Respondent mislead, or stood ready to mislead fellow physicians
who elected to send medical documents to the Respondent that he would receive medical
documents ostensibly, to treat the patients for their underlying ailments. As has been proven, in
many cases, the Respondent did not treat patients in accord with the practice of medicine, but rather,
sanctioned a course of action that ultimately resulted in the termination of the patients’ lives.

I find that the Respondent’s actions divested - or stood prepared to divest - patients’ treating
physicians from the opportunity to offer their patients alternatives to the life-ending measures

they had chosen. Accordingly, I find that such action or willingness to act in this manner was

26
