22. The Organization created a document entitled “First Responder and Exit Guide Training
Chicago IL, June 08 -10 2007” (Training Manual) which provides instructions for
Organization Exit Guides and First Responders. (State Ex. 17).

23. The Training Manual includes the following language:

Patients frequently express concern over obtaining their medical records. They’ re
entitled to these records by law, but it isn’t unusual for them to say that their doctor
will question the need for the records and they’re reluctant to approach a doctor they
don’t feel confident about. Sometimes doctors will mail or fax records only to
another doctor. If that should be the case, as a last resort, tell the patient to ask the
doctor to send the records to:

Lawrence Egbert, MD, MPH

814 Powers Street

Baltimore, MD 21211

The record can also be faxed to him. . . . If a doctor questions why the patient is
sending records to Baltimore, tell him/her to say that Dr. Egbert is a specialist in
pain management (maybe the patient found him on the Internet) and consults
throughout the country on difficult cases (he is and he does, and people do come
across his name on the Internet). As an alternative, the patient may say that other
doctors have asked for information the patient can’t recall so he/she has started
keeping copies of records.

(State Ex. 17).

24. The Organization has produced a document entitled “Procedure for Hastened Death Using
Inert Gas,” which details the procedure and materials the Organization must use to
effectuate a member’s death by helium. That document states that was written “[b]y Richard
MacDonald, M_D. edited by Lawrence D. Egbert, MD, MPH.” (State Ex. 17)

25. As part of the Organization’s written material, the Respondent wrote a document entitled
“Voluntary Stopping of Eating and Drinking (VSED).” The document details the
effectiveness of VSED for individuals who wish to end their lives. The Respondent used his
professional designation, M.D., as the named author of that document. (State Ex. 17)

26. As Medical Director for the Organization, the Respondent received and evaluated the

medical records for each member who wished to end his or her life along with a copy of a

Z
