reviewed by Dr. Wright. The x-ray results, however, were discussed in the original records and
original patient summary and Dr. Dooley indicated the x-rays were essentially normal.

X-rays of the left foot and left ankle were conducted on June 11, 2013. Again, Dr.
Dooley provided these imaging reports in his Exhibit 7, but they were not originally submitted to
the Board, and therefore, were not admitted into evidence or reviewed by Dr. Wright. The
reports, however, were discussed in the original records admitted into evidence and a chart note
from June 17, 2013 indicates that Patient F was informed the x-ray results were normal.

Dr. Dooley also submitted an MRI report of the lumbar spine conducted on August 6,
2013, which was not admitted into evidence at the OAH hearing. The results of the MRI were,
however, recorded in Dr. Dooley’s chart notes and original patient summary, which were
reviewed by Dr. Wright and admitted into evidence.

While Dr. Wright stated that she would have liked to have seen the original x-ray and
MRI reports and noted in her peer review report that there was no documentation of x-ray or
MRI findings to support continued usage of opioids, these documents would not have changed
her determination that Dr. Dooley did not meet the standard of quality care for Patient F, as her
opinion was based on other deficiencies. According to Dr. Wright:

Patient with chronic pain that has lasted for more than 3 months should not be

maintained on short acting opioids, but rather a long acting with break through

opioids must be instituted. Patient must have regular urine drug screens to check

for compliance. Use of other adjuncts such as anticonvulsants should be

considered in patients with complaints of radicular symptoms.

Dr. Dooley also submitted a pain management contract, dated August 29, 2013,'> that

was not included in the original records he submitted. Neither Dr. Wright nor the ALJ discussed

'S There is no documentation of a previous pain management contract in the records. In Dr. Dooley’s new patient
summary for Patient F, he states that he believes a medical assistant destroyed the original pain management
contract when the new contract was signed.

11
