constitutional rights to due process. Dr. Dooley also takes exception to the sanction proposed by
the ALJ.

L Exclusion of Exhibits by the ALJ

On March 13, 2015, in accordance with the ALJ’s amended scheduling order, Dr. Dooley
submitted 21 exhibits to the administrative prosecutor and ALJ. At issue before the Panel are Dr.
Dooley’s Exhibit 1 (paragraphs 17-122) and his Exhibits 2 through 11. Dr. Dooley’s Exhibit 1
was a copy of the charging document with his response beneath each allegation and Exhibits 2
through 11 contained the medical records and new patient summaries for Patients A-J.° In
response, the administrative prosecutor filed a Motion in Limine to Exclude Newly Proposed
Documentary Evidence based, in part, on COMAR 10.32.02.04C. This regulation pertains solely
to standard of care cases and requires that, no later than 45 days after the issuance of charges, the
respondent notify the administrative prosecutor of certain patient statements, consultations with
other providers, and communications with family members that affected the patient’s course of
treatment and are not recorded in the patient’s medical record. If the required notice from the
respondent is not provided, any evidence described in the regulation must be excluded. COMAR
10.32.02.04C(2)(d).

Before the ALJ, the administrative prosecutor argued that the exhibits, presented by Dr.
Dooley long after 45 days from the issuance of charges in September, 2014, must be excluded
because they contained statements within the scope of this regulation. She also argued that the
Administrative Procedure Act permits the exclusion of “evidence that is incompetent, irrelevant,
immaterial or unduly repetitious.” See Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-213(d). Dr. Dooley

submitted a letter in response acknowledging that he failed to comply with the regulation, but

° The medical records were, for the most part, the same as the records already produced by the State and entered into
evidence by the ALJ. As discussed below, there were several additional records that were included in Dr. Dooley’s
exhibits, but not in the State’s exhibits.
