Both the Respondent and Dr. Wright agree that there is no single source for the standard of
care in treating patients with chronic non-cancer pain, but many of the guidelines have consistent
themes,” Tr. 38 and Tr. 344,

Upon consideration of all the evidence, T conclude that the standard of care for prescribing
opioids requires that the prescribing physician conduct a comprehensive evaluation including
mandatory physical and optional psychological assessment with appropriate documentation at
regular intervals to assess the efficacy of therapy, with specific evaluation of the impact on
functional status, degree of pain relief, identification and treatment of undesirable side effects, and
monitoring for abuse behaviors. The standard of care further requires that the prescribing physician
require that the patient adhere to a written controlled dangerous substance agreement. (State Ex.
#41). These guidelines are consistent with the Board’s newsletter issued in the Spring of 2007
(State Ex, #42) in which the Board cited the Model Policy for the Use of Controlled Substances for
the Treatment of Pain, written by the Federation of State Medical Boards, which includes evaluation
of the patient, a treatment plan, periodic review, consultation, medical records, and compliance with
controlled dangerous substance laws and regulations. Both Drs. Wright and Kornbluth
independently agreed that there was insufficient monitoring of the Respondent's patients through
random urine drug screens and the Respondent failed to use a multimodal approach to pain
reduction. Patients were seldom referred for other forms of treatment besides opioid use such as
physical therapy or psychological evaluation. One patient was referred for chiropractic care, but
most were not provided with this care or physical therapy. The Respondent continued to prescribe
his patients high dosages of short term opioids for pain relief. Importantly, the Respondent did not

sufficiently utilize non-opioid medications to minimize the use of opioids to reduce pain,

 

* Standard of care is a legal term found in the statute. The Board has the burden of proving (1) that there is a
standard of care and (2) what the standard required of the Respondent,

25
