The treatment regimen documented by Dr. Dooley in the additional pre-surgery notes is
consistent with the substandard treatment and care documented in the post-surgery notes that
were considered and evaluated by the ALJ. Dr. Dooley prescribed high doses of opioids to
Patient D for an extended period of time without a plan of weaning her off the medications and
without attempting other modalities and treatment options. The medical records do not reflect
that Dr. Dooley ever considered or prescribed non-opioid medications for Patient D’s pain.

Based on his lack of monitoring, the frequency of prescriptions, his unimodal approach,
and his failure to implement a plan to wean, the ALJ found, based upon Dr. Wright’s expert
opinion, that Dr. Dooley failed to meet the appropriate standard of quality care for Patient D, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22).

Dr. Dooley has consistently maintained that Patient D was properly diagnosed, treated,
and prescribed the appropriate medications the entire time she was his patient. Panel B
disagrees. Dr. Dooley’s arguments are inconsistent with the overwhelming weight of the
evidence. The additional documents he submitted for Patient D do not change any of the
findings of fact. Rather, these additional documents provide further evidence of Dr. Dooley’s
deviations from the standard of care.

Patient F — Additional Evidence

The additional evidence for Patient F includes several imaging reports, a signed pain
management contract, and two additional chart notes.’ X-rays of Patient F’s left knee and
lumbar spine were taken on May 17, 2013, but the x-ray reports were not included in the original

medical records Dr. Dooley submitted to the Board and were not admitted into evidence or

' The additional chart notes were for dates of service (September 24, 2013 and February 5, 2015) that occurred after
Dr. Dooley provided his records to the Board and certified that he provided the complete medical records. The
charges were based on Dr. Dooley’s care of his patients through September 20, 2013. Any chart notes from dates of

service after September 20, 2013 are not relevant to the charges and the standard of care determination in this case.
The Panel declines to accept them.

10
