As an aggravating factor, the Respondent’s actions had the potential for patient harm.
COMAR 10,32.02.09B(6)(c). Prescribing SAOs for chronic pain care patients is not appropriate.
They can be used for breakthrough pain, but not for long term pain. The Respondent’s failure to
refer patients to employ other modalities of pain treatment shows an indifference to reducing
dependency of his patients on opioid medications, He did not adequately address the underlying
cause of the pain in his patients before placing them on a regimen of opioids. Treating the
underlying cause of the pain could have reduced or eliminated the need for opioid medications.
His practice made his patients more dependent on opioids rather than less dependent.

While the Respondent has acknowledged that “because of all this, I will never go back to
pain management” (Tr. 522), he does not acknowledge that he did anything wrong. He
voluntarily surrendered his DEA Certificate of Registration due to the DEA’s investigation,
Theoretically, the DEA could reinstate his certificate. The State of Maryland has no control over
whether the DEA issues a certificate or not, The State is recommending that the Respondent’s
license to practice medicine be suspended for one year and after the one year suspension, the
Respondent would have to petition a disciplinary panel of the Board in order to be reinstated. If
he is reinstated, the Respondent would be placed on three years of probation, the terms of which
would be determined by the disciplinary board. Additionally, the State recommends that he be
banned from prescribing any controlled dangerous substances. This would include not only
opioids but any other non-opioid medication as well that is classified as a controlled dangerous
substance,

The Respondent has already acknowledged that he will no longer return to the practice of
pain management. I concur with the State’s recommendation that due to the failure to meet the

standards of care with respect to pain medicine management, the Respondent should be

4]
