with Dr. Gharbani. Although she never returned for another visit with the Respondent, after
December 7, 2012, the Respondent disregarded his own instructions on October 4, 2012 that the
prescription he wrote on that date would be the last prescription he would write for her.
Although there is justification to provide compassionate prescriptions to avoid the potentially
severe affects of withdrawal, the Respondent provided this opioid without any verification that
she was prescribed the medication in the first place and that she was taking the properly
designated amount. He relied solely on the representations of the patient to determine whether
he should write a prescription for oxycodone or not. Again, without any verification of
compliance by the patient and without conducting a physical examination that justifies the need
for a prescription of opioids, the Respondent did not comply with the myriad of guidelines and
articles addressing when to prescribe opioids and how to verify compliance.
Patient C

Patient C was first seen by the Respondent on May 9, 2013 complaining of neck and back
pain as a result of a motor vehicle accident. She has a long history of opioid dependence and
opioid use was confirmed by one drug screen that was conducted at the time of her initial visit.
Patient C also has a history of bipolar disease which the Respondent treated by prescribing
Xanax. She was also offered and prescribed other medications to address other medical
conditions including Lyrica, Ambien, Soma, and Respiridone. She found that Kanax worked
best. In this case, the Respondent testified that she was being treated for more than pain. He
claimed that she was being treated for her life situation, her disabling psychiatric condition. Tr.
302. The Respondent did not refer her to a psychiatrist or employ any nonpharmacological
treatments while addressing her pain and psychiatric conditions. While he claimed that there

was no evidence of abuse because he did not see evidence of slurred speech, confusion, delirium,

30
