justification for his treatment plans and prescribing, described his care of each patient, and gave
explanations for why he believed his treatment met the standard of care. The information in Dr.
Dooley’s responses and new patient summaries, therefore, was considered by the ALJ at the
OAH hearing.

Further, neither at the OAH hearing nor at the exceptions hearing did Dr. Dooley
articulate how any of this additional evidence affected the standard of care determination. It
does not. Dr. Dooley’s responses to the charging document and the new patient summaries
contain no information that mitigates the serious deficiencies in his care and treatment of these
patients. The Panel gives this evidence little weight. Dr. Dooley’s testimony that he properly
treated all ten patients is unpersuasive when compared to Dr. Wright’s convincing expert
testimony that the standard of care was not met for all ten patients.

Medical Records for Patients A-J

The patient medical records in Dr. Dooley’s exhibits are identical to the medical records
that were already admitted into evidence and considered by the ALJ for eight out of the ten
patients. Accordingly, there are no new medical records for the panel to consider for Patients A,
B, C, E, G, H, I, and J." For the remaining two patients, Patients D and F, the majority of the
medical records were already admitted by the ALJ, but there are a few chart notes and imaging
reports that Dr. Dooley submitted in his exhibits, which he did not include in the medical records

he originally submitted to the Board.”

"Dr. Dooley submitted urine drug screen forms for Patients G and H, which were not admitted into evidence by the
ALJ, but these urine drug screens were ordered after Dr. Dooley submitted his records to the Board and certified that
he provided the complete medical records. The charges were based on Dr. Dooley’s care of his patients through
September 20, 2013. Any records from dates of service after September 20, 2013 are not relevant to the charges and
the standard of care determination in this case. The Panel declines to accept these urine drug screen forms.

” Although Dr. Dooley certified that he provided complete medical records for each of the ten patients on
September 20, 2013, he failed to include these additional records in his response to the Board’s investigatory
subpoena.
