used properly, despite several red flags, he did contribute to an environment that led to the death
of Patient A.

I also find that the Respondent was not credible in his testimony discussing each of the
ten patients reviewed by the peer reviewers. There is not one single case in which the
Respondent acknowledged that he could have done something different or may have taken a
different approach in the treatment of his patients. This suggests a degree of arrogance on the
part of the Respondent that is simply not justified. Dr. Wright, who is widely recognized as an
expert in the field of pain medicine and who was readily accepted as an expert by the
Respondent, had significant differences of opinion as to what the Respondent should have done
to meet an acceptable standard of care with respect to each and every one of his ten patients. She
has many years of experience in pain management and is Board certified in the practice. It is
simply not credible that the Respondent would dispute each and every claim of a failure to meet
a standard of care by Dr. Wright without acknowledging, at least one time, that he could have
done something differently that may have resulted in a better outcome for his patients.

The Respondent’s modus operandi in all of these patients was to treat them with SAOs
instead of LAOs despite literature and guidelines that indicate that LAOs were the opioids of
choice when treating patients with chronic pain. SAOs would be prescribed along with LAOs
for breakthrough pain on an as needed basis only in patients suffering from chronic pain.

The Respondent utilized a unimodal treatment for his patients, With few exceptions, he
treated pain through SAOs without utilizing other modes of treatment including but not limited

to physical therapy, psychiatric care, or non-opioid medications for neuropathic pain.

The Respondent was slow or oblivious to obvious red flags. When patients lost

medication or prescriptions, he often provided replacements without making further inquiry. He

39
