Patient D — Additional Evidence

The additional evidence for Patient D consists of chart notes from April 8, 2013, April
15, 2013, April 19, 2013, and April 23, 2013 (“pre-surgery records”) pertaining to Dr. Dooley’s
care and treatment of Patient D prior to her undergoing spinal cord surgery. The State’s records
admitted into evidence included a letter, dated April 12, 2011, from Patient D’s prior physician
reflecting that he maintained her on 80 mg of Oxycontin three times per day, 30 mg of
Oxycodone four times per day for break through pain, and Fentanyl patches of 50 mcg every two
to three days. When Patient D initially presented to Dr. Dooley, on April 8, 2013, Dr. Dooley
ordered a urine test, but he did not wait for the results before prescribing a new regimen of pain
medications. Dr. Dooley also discontinued the Oxycontin, increased the Oxycodone to 60 mg
four times per day, and prescribed Fentanyl patches of 100 mcg every three days. Dr. Dooley
never independently verified the medications and dosages that Patient D was taking and did not
have any documentation of the medications that Patient D was prescribed in the two years prior
to entering his practice.

The results of the urine screen were inconclusive, but Dr. Dooley continued to prescribe
the same medications and dosages, and he never conducted another urine screen between April
and September of 2013. Although Dr. Dooley testified that he saw pain management patients for
follow-up visits and prescription refills every two weeks, the additional notes reflected that he
routinely saw Patient D more frequently than every two weeks and prescribed early refills of her
medications. Dr. Dooley summarized these pre-surgery visits in the original patient summary for
Patient D that was admitted into evidence, testified in great detail about the pre-surgery visits,
and cross-examined Dr. Wright regarding her expert opinion of his care.

' Dr. Dooley was notified in the September 12, 2014 charging document that there was no progress note for April 8,
2013. He failed to provide this note and the other missing notes in discovery until March 13, 2015.

9
