within the scope of this regulation. Dr. Dooley asks the Panel to at least consider the exhibits,
even if consideration does not change the outcome. The Panel grants Dr. Dooley’s exception
and will accept and consider Dr. Dooley’s Exhibits 1 - 11 pursuant to COMAR
10.32.02.05B(3)(b)(ii).?

I. Consideration of Exhibits

Dr. Dooley argues that “the ALJ erred in excluding ten of [his] most important exhibits

ld

from evidence”’” and that the exclusion of these exhibits “caused unfair and untrue findings.”

The Panel rejects Dr. Dooley’s arguments. Dr. Dooley never took the time to isolate the
additional patient records and responses or explanations from the State’s exhibits admitted by the
ALJ. Panel B has painstakingly compared Dr. Dooley’s exhibits to the State’s exhibits that were
admitted and has isolated the few additional documents that have not already been admitted. The
additional evidence consists of Dr. Dooley’s paragraph by paragraph response to the charging
document, new patient summaries, and medical records for Patients A-J.
Responses to the Charging Document and New Patient Summaries

Dr. Dooley’s responses to the charging document repeat information from the medical
records that he originally submitted to the Board. At the evidentiary hearing, Dr. Dooley was
granted, and availed of, the opportunity to fully address these responses in his testimony. Dr.
Dooley’s new patient summaries also repeat information from his original patient summaries and
information already included in the medical records. In addition, Dr. Dooley testified before the

ALJ in great detail regarding his care and treatment for each of the ten patients. He provided

° COMAR 10.32.02.05B(3)(b)(ii) provides: “At the oral exceptions hearing, the disciplinary panel may not accept
additional evidence unless: . . . (b) The disciplinary panel determines that either: . . . (ii) The evidence has been
timely proffered before the administrative law judge and the administrative law judge abused his or her discretion in
refusing to admit the evidence.”

'° Dr, Dooley’s Exhibits 1-11 were identified in his Exceptions Appendix and, therefore, Panel B assumes that Dr.
Dooley refers to the ALJ’s exclusion of all eleven exhibits.

7
