suspended from the practice of medicine for a period of one year. I also concur that the
Respondent, if he wishes to be reinstated after a year, petition a disciplinary panel of the Board
for reinstatement and have the panel determine the conditions of probations that would last for a
period of three years. However, I do not agree with the State on its recommendation that the
Respondent be banned from prescribing all control dangerous substances. I do recommend that
the Respondent no longer be permitted to write prescriptions for opioid containing medications.
As to other medications that may be controlled dangerous substances but not opioid containing
medications, | would direct the disciplinary panel to determine what type or category of
controlled dangerous substances would be allowed to be prescribed by the Respondent. The total
ban of controlled dangerous substances includes many substances that were not part of the focus
of this investigation and were not proven to be administered by the Respondent in violation of
any identified standard of care. The investigation focused on opioids primarily along with
benzodiazepines. Banning the ability to write prescriptions for all controlled dangerous
substances could effectively eliminate the Respondent’s ability to ever practice medicine again.
The evidence in this case does not support such a sanction. Finally, I propose that the
Respondent be prohibited from engaging in a pain medicine practice and that the Board retain
the ability to monitor the Respondent’s medication prescribing practices if his license to practice
medicine is reinstated.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude, as a matter of law,
that the Respondent’s treatment of Patients A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, and J failed to meet
appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality

medical and surgical care, performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or‘any

42
