A was not evaluated by a psychiatrist before being prescribed Navane. The Respondent,
although having some limited background in psychiatry, is not a psychiatrist.

Although the Respondent was well aware of the red flags involving Patient A, he did
essentially nothing to determine whether the Respondent was diverting or abusing the
medications described. While it was later determined that other physicians prescribed Percocet
shortly prior to Patient A’s death, this fact alone does not answer the question why the
Respondent failed to take appropriate steps to determine whether Patient A was compliant or not
with the medications he prescribed. In fact, the day before Patient A died due to an overdose
combination of Xanax and Percocet, the Respondent increased Patient A’s dosage of Percocet
from 10 to 15 milligrams. Especially in a patient that has a history of long term use of a SAOs
and with a known history of incarceration and potential gang affiliation, there is simply no
excuse for failing to initiate a random drug screen, a pill count program, or other method to
determine compliance with medication. The Respondent failed to do so. The guidelines and
articles referred to by the State and the Respondent mention some form of verification to assure
medication compliance when prescribing opioids.

The Respondent claims that other practitioners contributed to the unfortunate event that
resulted in the death of Patient A because Patient A was apparently doctor shopping without the
knowledge of the Respondent. The Respondent is correct in that statement. However, that does
not excuse the Respondent for his part in failing to implement appropriate procedures that may
have revealed to the Respondent that the amount of medication in Patient A’s system was greater
than what one would expect to find. In that case, had the Respondent looked rather than accept
on face value the words of a convicted felon and a possible gang member, perhaps the

Respondent could have intervened in time to avoid Patient A’s death.

28
