C. Fact Witness Testimony

Dr. Salihi testified on his own behalf and called a nurse practitioner who worked with him
in his office as a fact witness. The nurse practitioner testified that she worked with Dr. Salihi in
the same office for approximately three years prior to his retirement. Initially she shadowed Dr.
Salihi, and they saw patients together for the first few weeks and then, after that, she saw patients
independently. She testified that she was not aware of any complaints regarding Dr. Salihi’s care
or treatment of patients, that Dr. Salihi was always able to answer her questions regarding their
shared patients, and that she was confident in Dr. Salihi’s medical practice.

The nurse practitioner, however, was not offered as an expert witness qualified to opine
about Dr. Salihi’s competence to practice medicine and she testified that she did not have a degree
in psychology or neuropsychology. The Board did not investigate or charge Dr. Salihi with any
standard of care violations and Dr. Salihi’s care and treatment of patients was not at issue in this
case. As the ALJ correctly noted, the Board is not required to wait until an actual injury occurs,
and the nurse practitioner was not qualified to render an expert opinion regarding Dr. Salihi’s
mental competence. See Pickert v. Maryland Bd. of Physicians, 180 Md. App. 490, 505 (2008)
(“No proof of injury or harm is required to take disciplinary actions against a physician’s license.”).
The Board adopts the ALJ’s reasoning and discussion regarding the testimony of the nurse
practitioner.

Dr. Salihi testified on his own behalf. The ALJ accurately described Dr. Salihi’s testimony
and noted that he provided clear responses to the same questions that were posed during his Board
interview. Dr. Salihi described some of the treatments he routinely provided and conditions he
treated. As discussed above, Dr. Salihi’s care and treatment of patients was not investigated or at

issue in this case. The focus of the Board’s investigation and the charges in this case was on
