recommended that Dr. Salihi’s license be suspended until he provides information to the Board to
establish that he is mentally competent to resume the practice of medicine.

On December 19, 2020, Dr. Salihi filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision, and the
State filed a response. On December 23, 2020, the State filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed
decision. On February 24, 2021, both parties appeared before Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B” or
“the Panel”) of the Board for an exceptions hearing.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B adopts the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact, numbers 1-23, with the modification
discussed below. See ALJ proposed decision, attached as Exhibit 1.! These facts were proven by
a preponderance of the evidence and are incorporated by reference into the body of this document
as if set forth in full. The Panel also adopts the ALJ’s discussion set forth on pages 10-21, which
is incorporated into the body of this document as if set forth in full.

Dr. Salihi was licensed by the Board to practice medicine in the State of Maryland on
December 19, 1974. His license is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2021. In or around
January 2019, the Board received a complaint from a health insurance company alleging
inappropriate conduct based on an anonymous tip of fraud received by the company. The health
insurance company closed its case with no action, but the Board initiated an independent
investigation of Dr. Salihi based on the complaint. As part of the investigation, Board compliance
analysts conducted a telephone interview with Dr. Salihi. At the beginning of the interview, when
Dr. Salihi was asked to provide his office address and phone number, Dr. Salihi asked his office
manager, who was also present in the room, for the information. Dr. Salihi was then told that the

office manager was not supposed to be present in the room and she was asked to leave. During

'! The ALJ proposed decision has been redacted to remove confidential information from public view.

2
