written submissions. In reaching her decision, the ALJ relied largely on the expert testimony from
the State’s experts and the psychologist, who testified on behalf of Dr. Salihi, and explained that
she found the testimony of the State’s expert to be more credible and persuasive.

The ALJ explained that Dr. Salihi’s expert is a licensed psychologist whose practice largely
involves the assessment of children and noted that he had evaluated only one other physician. Dr. .
Salihi’s expert was also unfamiliar with many of the tests that the State’s expert conducted and the
ALJ was unconvinced that the limited tests that Dr. Salihi’s expert performed were sufficient to
make an accurate determination about Dr. Salihi’s fitness to practice medicine, The Panel agrees
with the ALJ’s assessment of the expert testimony and, like the ALJ, gives greater weight to the
testimony of the independent evaluator who testified on behalf of the State. See Blaker v. State
Board of Chiropractic Examiners, 123 Md. App. 243, 259 (1998) (“When two experts offer
conflicting opinions, the trier of fact must evaluate the testimony of both experts and decide which
opinion, if either, to accept.”). Thus, Panel B concurs with the ALJ and the State’s experts that
Dr. Salihi is mentally incompetent to practice medicine. Dr. Salihi’s exception is denied.

B. Admission of Expert Report and Testimony

Dr. Salihi argues that the independent evaluator should not have been permitted to testify
and render an opinion based on the tests that were administered by the credentialed psychology
associate. The independent evaluator testified that he is a board-certified clinical
neuropsychologist with over thirty years of experience in diagnosing, research, and treatment of
neurological disorders. The ALJ admitted the independent evaluator as an expert in
neuropsychology without objection. As to the evaluation process and the preparation of the report
summarizing his findings regarding Dr. Salihi, the independent evaluator explained that he

followed a standard process where the psychology associate administered the tests that he selected,
