(9) If the disciplinary panel imposes a sanction that departs from the
sanctioning guidelines set forth in Regulation .10 of this chapter, the disciplinary
panel shall state its reasons for doing so in its final decision and order.

B. Aggravating and Mitigating Factors.

(1) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each case, and to the
extent that the facts and circumstances apply, the disciplinary pane! may consider
the aggravating and mitigating factors set out in § B(5) and (6) of this regulation
and may in its discretion determine, baséd on those factors, that an exception
should be made and that the sanction in a particular case should fall outside the
range of sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

(2) Nothing in this regulation requires the disciplinary panel oran
administrative law judge to make findings of fact with respect to any of these
factors.

(3) A departure from the sanctioning guidelines set forth in Regulation .10
of this chapter is not a ground for any hearing or appeal of a disciplinary panel
action. .

(4) The existence of one or more of these factors does not impose on the
disciplinary panel or an administrative law judge any requirement to articulate its
reasoning for not exercising its discretion to impose a sanction outside of the
range of sanctions set out in the sanctioning guidelines.

(5) Mitigating factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) The absence of a prior disciplinary record;

(b) The offender self-reported the incident;

(c) The offender voluntarily admitted the misconduct, made full disclosure
to the disciplinary panel and was cooperative during the disciplinary panel
proceedings;

(d) The offender implemented remedial measures to correct or mitigate the
harm arising from the misconduct;

(e) The offender made good faith efforts to make restitution or to rectify
the consequences of the misconduct;

(f} The offender has been rehabilitated or exhibits rehabilitative potential;

(g) The misconduct was not premeditated;

(h) There was no potential harm to patients or the public or other adverse
impact; or ,

(i) The incident was isolated and is not likely to recur.

(6) Aggravating factors may include, but.are not limited to, the following:

(a) The offender has a previous criminal or administrative disciplinary
history; /

(b) The offense was committed deliberately or with gross negligence or
recklessness;

(c) The offense had the potential for or actually did cause patient harm;

(d) The offense was part of a pattern of detrimental conduct;

(e) The offender committed a combination of factually discrete offenses
adjudicated in a single action;

(f} The offender pursued his or her financial gain over the patient's
welfare;

23
