Dr. Salihi obtained evaluations from a psychologist and a neurologist, in addition to his
primary care physician, who all opined that Dr. Salihi was competent to practice medicine. At the
OAH hearing, Dr. Salihi testified on his own behalf and presented testimony from the psychologist,
who was accepted as an expert in general psychology, and a registered nurse who worked in Dr.
Salihi’s office, who testified as a fact witness. Dr. Salihi did not present testimony from his
primary care physician or the neurologist who evaluated him. The State presented testimony from
the Medical Director of MPRP, who was accepted as an expert in neurology, the independent
evaluator, who was accepted as an expert in neuropsychology, and the Board compliance analyst,
who was assigned to investigate the case.

Dr. Salihi takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that he was mentally incompetent to practice
medicine. He argues that the evaluations conducted by his experts and the opinion of his treating
physician should be given more weight than the evaluation conducted by the State’s expert. Dr.
Salihi also argues that the ALJ erred by permitting the State’s expert to testify and render an
opinion on Dr. Salihi’s competence when he did not personally conduct the testing on which his
opinion was based. Finally, Dr. Salihi argues that the ALJ should have given more weight to his
testimony and the testimony of the nurse practitioner who worked in his office.

A. Expert Testimony

The ALJ considered the testimony of the experts who testified at the OAH hearing, as well
as the letter from Dr. Salihi’s primary care physician and the report from the neurologist that Dr.
Salihi hired to conduct an evaluation, which were admitted as exhibits. The ALJ explained that
she did not find the letter written by Dr. Salihi’s primary care physician or the report submitted by
the neurologist to be persuasive regarding Dr. Salihi’s competence to practice medicine because

they did not testify at the OAH hearing and did not provide any basis for their conclusions in the
