years, but that they were short term employees that he had worked with ten years ago, which
explains why he did not remember their names. Dr. Salihi argues that this misunderstanding of
the correct facts formed part of the basis for the ALJ’s finding that Dr. Salihi was not competent
to practice medicine.

The full context of Dr. Salihi’s interview with Board staff reveals that he was employed at
his former office location for approximately eight to ten years before he sold the practice in 2008.
He explained that he was the owner of the practice and employed two staff, one at the front desk
and one that worked in the back. Dr. Salihi was then asked to name the employees who worked
for him and he was unable to remember their names. The Board investigator mentioned two
specific names of individuals and he still did not recognize the names or remember the individuals.
The investigator then stated: “I mean, Dr. Salihi, with all due respect, you worked with them for
almost 10 years. So you’re telling me you don’t recall [] or []?” Dr. Salihi responded: “I really
don’t recall them, I don’t. I should, but I don’t. I’m telling you the fact — the truth.” Dr. Salihi
was then asked if he had a lot of staff turnover and he responded: “Yeah, I think I did.” As the
ALJ noted, Dr. Salihi later remembered one of the employees and explained that he did not
recognize the name because the employee had a different last name when she worked for him. For
the first time, at the OAH hearing, Dr. Salihi testified that he hired one of the former employees
he was asked about three months before he sold the practice, about ten years ago. Dr. Salihi also
claimed that the individuals were short time employees. Panel B accepts Dr. Salihi’s statement
and position that these individuals were short time employees that Dr. Salihi had worked with ten
years prior to the interview. As such, the Panel will remove the clause, “with whom he worked

for almost ten years” from finding of fact paragraph 10. The remainder of the paragraph is

? The names of the employees have been redacted for purposes of confidentiality.

4
