and he interpreted the findings to reach a conclusion. He explained the purpose of each test,
methodology of each test, and Dr. Salihi’s performance on each test.. He also testified that he
conducted a thorough interview of Dr. Salihi before the assistant administered the tests and that he
spent approximately an hour to an hour and a half with Dr. Salihi. The independent evaluator
explained that the test results were adjusted for Dr. Salihi’s age, sex, educational background, and
estimated premorbid ability. The evaluation also took into consideration that English was not Dr,
Salihi’s native language. The independent evaluator disagreed with the conclusions of Dr. Salihi’s
expert and explained that Dr. Salihi’s expert used a different set of tests, which were not designed
to show the presence of and could have obscured the presence of the suspected condition at issue.

The ALJ permitted the testimony and report of the independent evaluator, over Dr. Salihi’s
objection, explaining that hearsay is permitted in administrative hearings as long as it is found to
be reliable. The ALJ found that the hearsay was reliable, and that the independent evaluator was
personally involved in the analysis of the data and very familiar with the tests that were
administered and the testing results. The Panel agrees with the analysis of the ALJ and the decision
to admit the report and testimony of the independent evaluator. The record reflects that the
independent evaluator prepared the report and analyzed the data collected by the psychology
associate from the selection of tests that he ordered to be administered. He explained that it was
standard practice in the industry to have an associate administer the tests and that the associate
followed a standard protocol and was trained in the administration of the tests. Accordingly, Panel
B finds that the independent evaluator was competent to testify regarding the entirety of the report
and the testing results and that the ALJ properly allowed the testimony over Dr. Salihi’s objection.

Dr. Salihi’s exception is denied.
