suspected a diagnosis of a this case, he did not confirm such a diagnosis.

As such, it is unclear whether the Respondent may regain competence to practice medicine.
COMAR 10.32.02.09, Sanctioning and Imposition of Fines, provides a framework for .

consideration of various sanctions available to the Board. In relevant part it provides: |

A. General Application of Sanctioning Guidelines. :

(2) Sections A and B of this regulation and Regulation .10 of this chapter
do not apply to offenses for which a mandatory sanction is set by statute or
regulation.

(2) Except as provided in §B of this regulation, for violations of Health
Occupations Article, §§14-404(a), ... the disciplinary panel shall impose a
sanction not less severe than the minimum listed in the sanctioning guidelines nor
more severe than the maximum listed in the sanctioning guidelines for each
offense.

3) Ranking of Sanctions.

a) For the purposes of this regulation, the severity of sanctions is ranked
as follows, from the least severe to the most severe:

i) Reprimand;

ii) Probation;

(iii) Suspension; and

iv) Revocation. ,

5) Any sanction may be accompanied by conditions reasonably related to
the offense or to the rehabilitation of the offender. The inclusion of conditions
does not change the ranking of the sanction.
6) If a licensee has violated more than one.ground for discipline as set out
in the sanctioning guidelines:
a) The sanction with the highest severity ranking should be used to
determine which ground will be used in developing a sanction; and

(b) The disciplinary panel may impose concurrent sanctions based on
other grounds violated.

 

(8) Depending on the facts and circumstances of each case, and to the
extent that the facts and circumstances apply, the disciplinary panel may consider
the aggravating and mitigating factors set out in § B(5) and (6) of this regulation
and may in its discretion determine, based on those-factors, that an exception
should be made and that the sanction in a particular case should fall outside the
range of sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines.

22
