 

Grace E. Ziem, M.D.

SD 31,2016

Suresh K. Gupta, M.D., Vice Chair
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Grace E. Ziem, M.D.

License Number: D18732

MBP Case Number: 2015-0695 B

Dear Dr. Gupta and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D18732, effective
immediately. I understand that upon the surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
I] (Health Occ. IT”), §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2015 Supp.) and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT
and on Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the December 18, 2015 disciplinary
charges and the March 28, 2016 amended charges alleging that I violated Health Occ. II §
14-404(a)(3)(ii)(unprofessional conduct) and due to personal and medical issues which
have adversely affected my ability to practice medicine. A copy of the amended charges
is attached as Attachment 1.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned
disciplinary charges under the Act and in order to resolve this matter. I acknowledge that
if the case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be able to prove the charges by a
