Dr. Gupta and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Grace E. Ziem, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender

Lic. No. D18732
Page 2

preponderance of the evidence. I acknowledge that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure, the investigative allegations in the disciplinary charges will be treated as if
proven.

Prior to the issuance of the December 18, 2015 disciplinary charges, Panel B
summarily suspended my license to practice medicine in Maryland. | filed a timely
appeal. I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am foregoing
the opportunity to continue my appeal of the summary suspension, which is now pending
at the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”). I am also waiving my right to contest
the December 18, 2015 disciplinary charges and the amended charges at a formal
evidentiary hearing. In waiving my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, I am also
waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to
give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to a circuit court. I
do not wish to continue my appeal of the summary suspension or contest the disciplinary
charges.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioners’ Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have
permanently surrendered my license in lieu of further disciplinary action under the Act. I
also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other
state or jurisdiction, that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published
by the Board to the same extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary
action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen. Pro. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014 and 2015 Supp.), and
that this Permanent Letter of Surrender shall constitute a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I will present to
the Board my original Maryland medical license, number D18732, and my most recent
wallet-sized renewal card. I will also provide my patients with access to and copies of
medical records, upon request, and I acknowledge that I have a continuing duty, on
proper request, to provide a patient's medical record to the patient, another physician or
hospital in accordance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by tendering this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree
that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider
any application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date and that I
waive any hearing rights regarding any such application.
