Inder Singh, M.D.

a
March (2019

Arun Bhandari, Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Inder Singh, M.D. License Number: D18962
Case Number: 2217-0015

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), Ihave decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D18962, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date! of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
August 10, 2018, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a) (22) (fails to meet adequate standards for quality medical care) and (40) (fails to
keep adequate medical records). A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges and due to my
retirement.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to

submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I

' This Letter of Surrender will go into effect 90 days from the date of acceptance by the Executive Director
of the Board to provide time for Dr. Singh to transition his patients and wind down his practice.
