Date: Rvs st jo, z0z0

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Hatem S. Abdo, M.D.
License Number: D19448
Case Number: 2219-0128

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§ 14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), | have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D19448, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board received and began an investigation into a mandated
10-day report from a hospital stating that they had preliminary concerns regarding my
practice, chiefly with minimally invasive spinal fusion procedures, and that I was taking a
medical leave of absence. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations
and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure
that the allegations in the 10-day report shall be treated as proven and that these allegations
support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) (failure to meet
appropriate standard for delivery of quality medical and surgical care) and (40) (failure to
maintain adequate medical records).

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
