Dr. M, neuropsychologists who conducted neuropsychological evaluations and who agree that
Dr. Dabela suffers from a. The Panel also gives more weight to the neuropsychological
evaluation conducted by Dr. S than the neuropsychological evaluation conducted by Dr. M.

The Panel agrees with Dr. S that Dr. Dabela is not competent to practice medicine and
rejects Dr. M’s conclusion that with accommodations Dr. Dabela could safely practice medicine.
Dr. M had only evaluated five other physicians and Dr. Dabela’s evaluation was the first she
completed for the purpose of determining whether a physician was safe to practice medicine. In
contrast, Dr. S had performed “between 1 and 200 a year” for that purpose over the course of 33
years, Further, Dr. M and Dr. S conducted separate neuropsychological evaluations and reached
the same diagnosis that Dr. Dabela suffered from i. The Panel agrees with Dr. S that the
accommodations listed by Dr. M could help Dr. Dabela with daily living but concludes that they
would not be significant enough to allow him to safely practice medicine. Dr. Dabela has
planning and executive functioning deficits caused by his | that are functions integral to the
practice of medicine. The practice of medicine, regardless of specialty, is highly complex and
requires a greater level of expertise and intelligence. The Panel finds that Dr. Dabela is not
mentally competent to practice medicine.

Decision to preclude Dr. A from testifying

On the first day of the hearing, Dr. Dabela sought permission, for the first time, to call
Dr. A as a witness in the case, explaining that they had just been able to reach him and secure his
availability to testify. Dr. Dabela admitted that he missed the deadline for submitting Dr. A as a
witness and that he did not even inform the State of the potential for calling Dr. A as a witness or
that they were trying to get in touch with him. The State objected to Dr. Dabela calling Dr. A as

a witness because Dr. A was not disclosed as a potential witness until the morning of the hearing.

10
