In a Proposed Decision issued on October 12, 2021, the ALJ recommended that the
summary suspension issued on January 29, 2021, and the charges issued by Panel A on February
25, 2021, be upheld. As a sanction, the ALJ recommended that Dr. Dabela’s license be revoked.

Dr. Dabela filed written exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Decision, and the State filed a
Response to Dr. Dabela’s exceptions. Both parties appeared before Disciplinary Panel B of the
Board for an oral exceptions hearing, on December 15, 2021. After considering the entire record,
including the evidentiary record made before the ALJ, and the written exceptions and oral
arguments by both parties, Panel B now issues this Final Decision and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B makes the following findings of fact by the preponderance of the evidence:

At all times relevant to this proceeding, Dr. Dabela was a licensed physician in the State
of Maryland engaged in the practice of nephrology. Dr. Dabela was first licensed by the Board
on October 21, 1976. Dr, Dabela was born in Ethiopia and is fluent in Oromo, Amharic, and
English. On July 31, 2018, Dr. Dabela was involved in a serious car accident that resulted in a
severe injury to his brain, which required major surgery. Following the surgery, Dr. Dabela
participated in extensive outpatient physical therapy and cognitive rehabilitation. During this
time and while he recovered, Dr. Dabela did not see any patients. Dr. Dabela’s medical partner
took over the care of Dr. Dabela’s patients. On November 4, 2019, Dr. Dabela returned to the
practice and expressed his interest in resuming seeing patients. On November 20, 2019, Dr.
Dabela’s partner filed a complaint with the Board alleging that Dr. Dabela was no longer
competent to care for patients and asked the Board to evaluate Dr. Dabela’s competency.

As a result of the complaint, the Board opened an investigation to assess Dr. Dabela’s

competency to practice medicine. The Board subpoenaed Dr. Dabela’s medical records and
