Dr. Dabela admits that the accommodations recommended by his expert Dr. M are
significant. Dr. S also noted that Dr. Dabela would have to have a phenomenal memory just to
remember the twenty-one concrete recommendations noted by Dr. M to help Dr. Dabela with
daily living. The Panel finds that Dr. M’s list of accommodations are neither practical nor
reasonable for Dr. Dabela to implement in his medical practice. Equally important, the Board has
no way of enforcing or requiring Dr. Dabela to rigorously follow the recommendations in order
to ensure patient safety. Notably, Dr. M did not comment on the specific skills needed to work as
a physician and, in particular, a nephrologist. In addition, Dr. M recommended psychotherapy,
cognitive behavioral therapy, cognitive rehabilitation therapy, and consultations with a
neurologist, speech and language pathologist, and audiologist. The extensive recommendations
noted by Dr. M are indicative of the significant levels of assistance Dr. Dabela requires.

Dr. B also testified on behalf of Dr. Dabela. Dr. B was qualified as an expert in
neuropsychological assessment and evaluation. Dr. B did not conduct an evaluation of Dr.
Dabela and never personally met Dr. Dabela. Rather, Dr. B was asked by Dr. Dabela’s counsel to
review Dr. S’s report from a cultural competency perspective. Dr. B reviewed Dr. S’s and Dr.
M’s reports and opined that the results of Dr. S’s evaluation lacked adequate validity to reach a
firm clinical diagnostic decision regarding Dr. Dabela’s competency. Dr. B opined that Dr, S’s
evaluation was unreliable and reflected a glaring lack of cultural competency, but she recognized
that both Dr. S and Dr. M came to the same conclusion in diagnosing Dr. Dabela with a. Dr,
B also noted deficiencies in Dr. M’s report, but she trusted the conclusions in Dr. M's report
more than the conclusions in Dr. S’s report because the conceptualization in Dr. M’s report was
more comprehensive. Dr. B explained that there was no test available to evaluate the exact

cultural characteristics of Dr. Dabela. Dr. S recognized and appreciated the concerns raised in
