quality assurance files from each hospital where he held privileges. The Board also interviewed

Dr, Dabela and his medical partner and asked Dr. Dabela to provide his response to the

complaint. During Dr. Dabela’s interview he received assistance from his daughter in answering

questions. In his written response, Dr. Dabela stated that he was competent to practice medicine ,
and that he believed his medical partner filed the complaint in an effort to gain sole ownership of

their practice. On October 23, 2020, Dr. Dabela provided the Board with a letter from a

neurologist (“Dr. A”) who examined Dr. Dabela on two occasions in February of 2020. Dr. A

concluded that Dr. Dabela was mentally competent to practice as a physician without any

limitations.

On December 2, 2020, the Board directed Dr. Dabela to submit to an evaluation pursuant
to Health Occ. § 14-402(a). Dr. Dabela attended an intake evaluation remotely over the Zoom
platform with the medical director, a neurologist', (“Dr. R”) and the Senior Clinical Manager
(“Ms. A”) of the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). Based on the MPRP
initial evaluation, Dr. Dabela was referred to a subsequent neuropsychological evaluation to
assess his mental competency to practice medicine.

On December 22, 2020, Dr. Dabela underwent an examination conducted by a
neuropsychologist” (“Dr. S”) with the assistance of a postdoctoral fellow and psychology
associate. The battery of tests included 39 values, which were designed to assess a broad
spectrum of abilities, including an estimate of pre-morbid function, executive functioning, basic
language functions, visual spatial abilities, and the ability to learn and remember new

information. Dr. S selected the tests, and the tests were administered by the psychology

' Neurology is the study of the entire nervous system, which includes the brain, spinal cord, and all the nerves
outside of the brain and spinal cord. Neurologists are trained to conduct mental status examinations, but are not
trained to conduct neuropsychological evaluations.

? Neuropsychology is a subset of psychology that focuses on brain function and the relationship between brain
function and everyday cognitive function.
