Kempanna Sudhakar M.D.

Date: Mek WG Aojo

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

RE: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D19971
Case Number: 2220-0120 B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that pursuant to Md. Code. Ann., Health Occ. ("Health Oce.")
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol & 2019 Supp.) | have decided to permanently SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D19971,
effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§
14-101 ef seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciptinary Pane! B's (“Panel B “} acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Pane] B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation after receiving a report from
a Maryland hospital that my hospital privileges were suspended due to concerns that
health issues were impacting my ability to practice medicine safely. | acknowledge that
a comprehensive medical evaluation determined that my current health status impairs my
ability to practice medicine safely. As a consequence, | decided to stop practicing
medicine. After | made my decision to ultimately stop practicing medicine, on December
13, 2019, Panel B filed an Order of Summary Suspension, summarily suspending my
license.

| have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of the investigative findings in the

' .
