Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D.

Harbhajan Singh Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B _

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D.

License Number: D20441

Case Number: 2223-0079

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §14-403,
Thave decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License
Number D20441, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as
it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 e¢ seq. and
other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed
individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes 2a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report from a hospital stating
that I was terminated after an internal investigation, which included an audit of my computer usage,
a review of patient records, and hospital video surveillance that found that I created medical
records that indicated that I had seen and rounded on eight patients that I did not physically
assess. The Board began an investigation of these allegations. I have decided to surrender my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these allegations and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (11).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s
