Harbhajan Singh Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Joseph L. Raffetto, M.D.

Letter of Surrender

Page 2

investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other

substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court,

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender
may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq., and that this
Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender my

Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. | further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement,
1 will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Verv truly vours.

Signature On File

Joseph L, Raffetto, M.D.
