 

John L. Hill, M.D.

Date: aer4

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: | Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
John L. Hill, M.D. License Number: D20662
Case Number: 2219-0131B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to permanently SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number: D20662,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that on April 9, 2019, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against
me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4). I have decided to permanently surrender my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these disciplinary charges and due to my current health and retirement.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender | am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
