 

 

_ 8/24/2020

Date

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Robert Henderson, M.D. License Number: D21351
Case Number: 2220-0162

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER nny license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D21351, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging that I recommended
Colloidal Silver for treatment of a patient’s possible malignant mass and that the Board
initiated an investigation into the allegations, which included referring my case for peer
review. In four out of the six patient records reviewed, the peer reviewers agreed that I
failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22). I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland to avoid prosecution of these allegations and due to my current
health condition and retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support
a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22) (fails to meet appropriate
standards for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
