 

Mohammad Tagqi, M.D.

Date: Febartay Lb, A021

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Mohammad Taqi, M.D.

License Number: D21859

Case Number: 2221-0062

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Ocec.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D21859, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 ef seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint based on my fitness to practice
medicine due to my current health status and initiated an investigation into the allegations.
I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my
retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. § 14-404 (a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand
that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
