 

Barry M. Shmookler, M.D.

January 23, 2020

Dr, Damean Freas, Chair Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, MD 21215
RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D21961
Case Number: 2220-0146

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland, License Number D21961, effective immediately. ] understand that upon surrender of
my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation,
and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland
as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Health Occ. Code Ann., § 14-101
et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter
of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that ] am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and upon Disciplinary B’s
(“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (“the Board”).

My decision to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland has been
prompted by the Board’s investigation into my compliance with the Board’s Continuing Medical
Education (CME) requirements for license renewal. The Board’s random audit of my 2019 license
renewal application revealed that although I attested on my 2019 renewal application that I completed 50
hours of CME to meet the Board’s CME requirements, I did not actually complete the required 50 hours
of CME credits.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution of these allegations. 1 recognize that for all purposes relevant to
medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404 (a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine) and (36) (willfully makes a false representation when seeking or making application for
licensure).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Letter
of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not
