 

Re.: Letter of Surrender
Barry M. Shmookler, M.D.
January 23, 2020
Page 2 of 2

wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which | would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and. procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

l understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the National
Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel B.

1 affirm that 1 will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my patients, in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will remain
sutrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of
my Maryland License, | understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement;
and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers
appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. | further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the
same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for any
reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been advised of my right to be represented by
an attorney of my choice, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender, | have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before
signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand this Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that ] understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Sincerely,

Signature on File

Barry M. Shmookler, M

 
