The Panel is, therefore, tasked with determining whether the procedure Dr. Alexander
performed was an abortion or the delivery of a stillborn fetus. The record revealed that,
generally, there are two types of abortions, surgical and non-surgical? The medical induction of
fetal demise may be used before both surgical and non-surgical late-term abortions when the
pregnancy is terminated due to significant fetal abnormalities or medical conditions affecting the
mother’s health. The fetus is then removed from the uterus either surgically or by inducing labor
and delivering the fetus. Regardless of the method used, an abortion is performed to cause fetal
death.

In this case, when Patient A presented to his office, Dr. Alexander anticipated that he
would perform a medically induced abortion" of a 28-week fetus with significant abnormalities.
He expected the fetus to have a heart rate and expected to induce fetal demise by injecting
digoxin intrauterine to stop the fetal heart and terminate the pregnancy. Dr. Alexander did not
expect the fetus to be already deceased prior to the induction of fetal demise. At 28 weeks, if a
fetal heart rate is not detected, there is no fetal demise to induce and the procedure cannot be
properly classified as an abortion. The Panel rejects Dr. Alexander’s characterization of the
procedure as a medically induced abortion in light of the undisputed evidence documented in the
medical records that there was no fetal heart rate when Dr. Alexander examined Patient A on
February 28, 2014.

Rather, in the absence of a fetal heart rate, the Panel agrees with the State’s experts that

the only procedure that remained was the delivery" of the stillborn fetus.” The patient could

’ The Panel, using its own knowledge and expertise, notes that abortions can also be spontaneous when they
occur from natural causes, such as in the case of a miscarriage. A spontaneous abortion, however, by definition, can
only occur prior to 20 weeks gestation.

° In this decision, medical abortion and induction of fetal demise are used interchangeably.

" Delivery includes a live birth as well as the delivery of a stillborn fetus.

4
