further that the standard of care required documentation of the time of delivery and the condition
of the fetus, including fetal weight and any anomalies. She questioned the Respondent’s notation
that the fetus was nonviable because nonviability means the fetus could not sustain life if it had
been born alive. However, in this case, the Respondent had ascertained fetal death in utero. Dr.
M. Browne stated the standard for nonviability is the delivery of a fetus before twenty-four
weeks gestation. She explained that spina bifida does not deem a fetus nonviable. She explained
further that the fetal anomalies should be documented for the mother’s benefit regarding possible
future pregnancies. Dr. M. Browne testified that the Respondent should have documented how
the fetus was disposed and should have produced a death certificate.

The record shows Pitocin was administered post procedure but it does not state the date,
time, or who administered it. The record does not state what time Patient A was discharged from
the Respondent’s care. The Respondent appears to have recorded the entire procedure from the
administration of laminaria and medications presumably on the evening of February 28" to the
delivery presumably on the morning of March 1* on one sheet because there are references to
both dates but the entries are not in chronological order and it is not clear from the document
itself what occurred when. Both Dr. Rafi and Dr. M. Browne testified that they were unable to
ascertain from the record itself the course of Patient A’s care. Further, Dr. Rafi and Dr. M.
Browne stated that the record did not show that Patient A’s vital signs were monitored when she
was given Nubain and midazolam, which are sedating medications. Dr. Rafi and Dr. M. Browne
opined that the Respondent’s medical record did not meet the standard of care.

Dr. Rafi testified that she was confused about the consent form (“Mifeprex/Misoprostol
Abortion Consent & Information”) that the Respondent used with Patient A that had her
acknowledge she was less than nine weeks pregnant when she was in fact twenty-eight weeks

pregnant. Dr. Rafi noted that Patient A did not date her signature on that consent form. Dr. Rafi

21
