Dr. Rafi and Dr. M. Browne both noted that the Respondent determined fetal death via
ultrasound and auscultation and both questioned why the Respondent administered digoxin,
which induces fetal death, when fetal death had already occurred. Both Dr. Rafi and Dr. M.
Browne testified the Respondent’s administration of digoxin after fetal demise violated the
standard of care because there was no indication for the use of the medicine.

Dr. Rafi and Dr. M. Browne testified that they had difficulty understanding the
Respondent’s medical record for Patient A. Both doctors described missing information,
disorganized recording of information in the record, and questions they could not answer from
the record. In addition, they had to rely on statements the Respondent made to the Board,
ie., information outside the medical record, to gain a better understanding of what occurred.

Dr. Rafi explained that medical records should contain a timeline of what occurred and
that one should be able to follow the record and know what occurred and when, what time
medications were administered, and the status of the patient. The Respondent’s medical record
shows that he performed a vaginal exam, which he stated was negative, but does not give the
date or time of the exam. Dr. Rafi stated that she did not know what the Respondent meant by
negative. The record has vital signs recorded at the top of the page but does not state the date
and time they were taken. The record shows that laminaria, digoxin, and lidocaine were
administered but does not state the date or time or who administered them. The record does not
show the Respondent administered saline. Further, the record does not state that the Respondent
released Patient A to a hotel overnight with directions to return when she felt pain. The record
shows Mifeprex was administered but does not state the date or time or who administered it The
record shows Nubain (LV. sedation) was administered at 9:00 am but does not state the date or
who administered it. The record shows midazolam (I.V. sedation) was administered “x 4 5 A, 7,

9 A, 12.” State 23. The record does not state the dosage given, the date(s) given, or who

19
