The Respondent argued that he did not violate the standard of care and did not engage in
unprofessional conduct. He did not address the sanction or the aggravating factors directly;
however, I infer that his position is that no sanction is warranted.

I agree with the State that revocation of the Respondent’s medical license is warranted.
The Respondent’s treatment of Patient A could have caused her great harm if complications had
arisen. The Respondent should have referred Patient A to a higher level of care facility to
manage the delivery of her dead fetus. At a minimum, the Respondent should have referred
Patient A to a facility that had the ability to perform surgical abortions if necessary to complete
Patient A’s medically induced labor. The Respondent’s emergency plan of calling 911 was
simply insufficient to ensure Patient A’s well being. The Respondent’s confusing and
incomplete record of Patient A’s procedure also placed her at risk if she needed additional
immediate care; a subsequent physician would not be aware of her course of care. The
Respondent’s assertion that he had not completed his record keeping course is disingenuous.
The Respondent has known since July 2012 that he needed to improve his record keeping and the
Board directed him to complete a record keeping course within six months. The Respondent is
responsible for his delay in completing the course. Moreover, he remained under an obligation
to improve his record keeping in the meantime. I agree with the State that the Respondent’s
actions were deliberate and had the potential for harm. I also agree that Patient A was
vulnerable; she was from a foreign country and had recently learned her fetus had severe
abnormalities. The Respondent’s disciplinary history, detailed in the findings of fact above,
further supports revocation of his license. On January 13, 2014, the Board filed charges against
the Respondent that included failing to document post-operative vital signs, bleeding, and

ambulation of patients, and failing to produce medical records for patients. Thus, in February of

29
