Thus, it is more likely than not that Patient A and her husband desired her pregnancy, a
conclusion which is further supported by the fact that she was pregnant again seven months later.
More importantly, when Patient A presented to the Respondent on February 28, 2014, he
determined that there was no fetal heart rate. It is unclear to me why, at that point, the
Respondent continued to treat Patient A as if he were terminating an unwanted pregnancy and
needed to ensure fetal demise. Dr. C. Browne did not offer an explanation as to how providing a
medically induced, non-surgical abortion to a patient with a dead twenty-eight week old fetus
met the standard of care. Dr. C. Browne did not explain why it was necessary to administer
digoxin and lidocaine to induce fetal demise in a fetus that was already dead. When asked if
digoxin caused cervical priming, Dr. C. Browne responded “we do not know.”"* When asked if
he were aware of any studies showing lidocaine facilitated delivery, he stated he was not. Dr. C.
Browne did not address the increased risk of complications posed by the fact that Patient A’s
fetus was dead for an unknown period of time; complications that may have required immediate
surgical intervention. It is not clear to me that Dr. C. Browne was even aware that the
Respondent was prohibited by the Board from providing surgical abortions. Dr. C. Browne’s

testimony that it was not necessary “in this setting”!>

to confirm and document the fetal
anomalies ignored Patient A’s desire for this pregnancy and future pregnancies. A description of
the fetal anomalies is information that would be useful to a woman for any future pregnancies.
On cross examination, Dr. C. Browne admitted that the medical record did not state the
precise times the fetus and placenta were delivered. He presumed the fetus was delivered
somewhere before or at 9:00 am based on the notes and comments. He testified that in an

outpatient setting the only times that mattered were when the procedure began and ended, but did

not explain why the times of delivery did not matter in an outpatient setting. Dr. C. Browne

4 Tr, p, 492.
8 Ty, p, 485.

23
