administered it. Moreover, it is unclear whether “12” means 12:00 am or pm. Written
sequentially after 9:00 am implies 12:00 pm (noon); however, the Respondent testified it was
12:00 am (midnight), before the procedure. Further, there are no vital signs recorded with each
administration of I.V. sedation.

Dr. Rafi testified that the standard of care required that Patient A’s vital signs be taken
and recorded each time she was given I.V. sedation. There is a space on the document to record
estimated blood loss, but it is blank. Dr. Rafi testified that the standard of care required
estimated blood loss to be documented. The record states the tissue volume was moderate and
the fetus was seen. The record also states “NSVD nonviable fetus and placenta intact.” State 23.
The record identifies the discharge diagnosis as “28 wk IUP, Multiple Anomalies, Medical
Abortion.” State 23. However, the record does not state the times the fetus and placenta were
delivered, a description of the fetal anomalies, fetal Apgar scores, or fetal weight. Dr. Rafi
testified the standard of care required that the delivery times, a description of the fetal anomalies,
fetal Apgar scores, and fetal weight be recorded. She explained that this information would be
useful to a patient who wishes to become pregnant again in the future. For example, according
to the ultrasound Patient A’s fetus had spina bifida; Dr. Rafi stated there are medications Patient
A could take in the future to decrease the chances of a future neural tube defect. Dr. Rafi also
stated that a death certificate should have been written because this was a stillbirth.

Dr. M. Browne testified that she could not identify the time of delivery from the record.
The Respondent made a notation “Time Out 9 am.” State 23. Dr. M. Browne stated that the
Respondent’s notation did not meet the standard of care. She explained, “where is she [Patient
A] out of? Is she out of the office, is she out of delivery, is the baby out, is the placenta out?
What is out? I don’t know. I can’t answer.” Tr. p. 159. Dr. M. Browne testified that the

standard of care requires that the time the placenta was delivered be documented. She testified

20
