The Respondent submitted to the Board and introduced into evidence a number of articles
regarding late term abortions, including those in outpatient settings. All of the articles discussed
both medical and surgical abortions, and the possibility that surgical interventions may be
necessary if complications arose. There were four articles that specifically discussed abortions in
an outpatient setting. Three were written by Dr. Warren Hern, one of which discussed selective
termination of a twin for fetal anomaly or genetic disorder at thirty-two weeks gestation and
greater. The fourth discussed patients at the Parkmed Women’s Center that were seventeen to
twenty-four weeks pregnant. Thus, only two of Dr. Hern’s articles appear applicable to this case
based on the age of the fetus and only one is directly applicable, addressing fetal anomalies and
fetal death.

In his articles Outpatient Abortion for Fetal Anomaly and Fetal Death from 15-34
Menstrual Weeks’ Gestation: Techniques and Clinical Management and Laminaria, Induced Fetal
Demise and Misoprostol in Late Abortion, Dr. Hern described his practice setting as a single private
office located across the street from a community hospital. Dr. Hern noted that his facility had been
“specially equipped and staffed to provide assistance for women seeking late abortion.” State 31 p.
301, Resp. 16 p. 280. Dr. Hern wrote: “Patients receive individual counseling and support
throughout their experience at the clinic.” Jd. He discussed the use of Dilation and Evacuation
(D & E) if expulsion of the fetus did not occur. He noted the importance of draining amniotic fluid
as completely as possible before inducing labor to reduce the risk of amniotic fluid embolism. He
described his method for measuring blood loss. He explained that procedure time was measured
from the beginning of delivery of the fetus or entering the uterine cavity with instruments “until
completion of the procedure by final curettage and vacuum aspiration.” State 31 p. 302, Resp. 16 p.
281. He described post-operative tissue examination as follows: “weighing the fetus and placenta

separately and carefully measuring fetal parts, including foot length, biparietal diameter,

25
