Alexander violated the appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care. Dr.
Alexander’s exception is denied."
I. Unprofessional Conduct

Dr. Alexander takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that he committed unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine. There is no dispute that Dr. Alexander’s conduct was in the
practice of medicine, but he argues that his actions did not rise to the level of unprofessional.
Unprofessional conduct has been defined as that “which breaches the rules or ethical code of a
profession, or conduct which is unbecoming a member in good standing of a profession.”
Finucan v. Maryland Bd. of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577, 593 (2004).

Dr. Alexander argues that the ALJ impermissibly found that he committed unprofessional
conduct because he violated the standard of care. He contends that a violation of the standard of
care does not necessarily mean that the conduct was unprofessional. The Panel agrees that a
standard of care violation may not automatically constitute unprofessional conduct, but the
Board has previously determined that certain violations of the standard of care may be “so
egregious as to amount to unprofessional conduct in themselves.” Geier v. Maryland State Bd.
of Physicians, 223 Md. App. 404, 437 (2015).

The facts and evidence presented in this case demonstrate that the standard of care
violations were so egregious and so unsound as to amount to unprofessional conduct in
themselves. Dr. Alexander performed an unnecessary procedure that was not medically
indicated. In his testimony, Dr. Alexander readily acknowledged that “generally speaking

stillbirths can be managed conservatively and in most instances patients will go into labor and

“* Dr. Alexander also takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that he violated the standard of care with regard to his
record-keeping and his failure to immediately produce Patient A’s medical records when requested by the Board’s
investigators. The Panel, however, need not reach these issues, and declines to do so, in light of the other standard
of care violations, which are discussed herein. The Panel does not find that Dr. Alexander violated the standard of
care or committed unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine with regard to the storage of his records.

7
