11. The gestational age of Patient A’s fetus was twenty-eight weeks and six days, as
calculated by the date of her last menstrual period on August 10, 2013.8

12. Patient A provided to the Respondent the results of her prior ultrasounds, copies
of which he included in his records for her.

13. The most recent ultrasound had been performed on February 22, 2014 and
diagnosed the fetus with bilateral vetriculomegaly, spina bifida meningomyelocele, and a right
club foot.

14. Patient A filled out forms regarding her medical history and signed consent forms
for an abortion, including the use of Mifeprex and Misoprostol, and the operative risks for
abortion by vacuum. The consent forms were witnessed by the Respondent and a staff person
whose signature is illegible on February 28, 2014. Patient A signed the “Mifeprex/Misoprostol
Abortion Consent & Information” form but did not date her signature. Patient A signed the
“Operative Risks, Complications and Consent” form and dated her signature March 1, 2014.
That date is crossed out and February 28, 2014 is written in its place.

15. The “Mifeprex/Misoprostol Abortion Consent & Information” form was
inapplicable, at least in part, to Patient A’s situation, in that it states at the top: “I acknowledge
that I am fewer than 9 weeks (63 days) pregnant and I have decided to have an abortion with the
medications Mifeprex and Misoprostol. Mifeprex blocks the action of progesterone; a hormone
needed to continue pregnancy.” State 23. :

16. The “Operative Risks, Complications and Consent” form was inapplicable, at
least in part, to Patient A’s situation, in that it states at the top: “As with any kind of procedure,
complications can occur during and after an abortion, however, early abortion by vacuum

aspiration is very safe.” State 23. The form discusses the risks of an early abortion by vacuum

 

8 Two medical records identify the date of Patient A’s last menstrual period as August 10, 2013, and one record
identifies it as August 9, 2013. On the Respondent’s record, Patient A identified it as August 14, 2013.

8
