observed that Patient A did not sign the discharge instructions, and that the standard of care
required that she sign it. Dr. Rafi noted that Patient A was under the effects of I.V. sedation and
that she believed Patient A’s partner was there with her; however, there was no signature for that
person, nor was that person identified anywhere in the record. Dr. Rafi testified that the standard
of care required that Patient A be released to a responsible individual who must sign the
discharge instructions. Dr. M. Browne also testified that the standard of care required that
Patient A sign the discharge form and that the responsible individual to whom she was released
be identified in the record.

Dr. Rafi testified that the standard of care requires that a physician be able to access
his/her medical records. She opined that the Respondent violated the standard of care when he
could not access his medical records immediately when asked to do so by the compliance
analyst.

Dr. C. Browne (the Respondent’s expert) opined that the Respondent did not violate the
standard of care when he performed Patient A’s procedure in an outpatient setting. He opined
further that the Respondent’s administration of digoxin and lidocaine did not pose an undue risk
to Patient A.

I found a number of fundamental problems with Dr. C. Browne’s testimony. First and
foremost, Dr. C Browne’s testimony treated the procedure the Respondent performed on Patient
Aas a termination of an unwanted pregnancy. His testimony addressed the safety of late term
abortions in outpatient settings. From his testimony, it is not clear to me whether Dr. C. Browne
was aware of all the facts in this case. However, the record is clear that Patient A sought an
abortion from the Respondent on February 28, 2014, only six days after she learned that her fetus
had severe anomalies on February 22, 2014. Until that point, Patient A appears to have been

- receiving pre-natal care, as evidenced by the medical records she provided to the Respondent.

22
