discretion in sanctioning licensees and the ALJ’s proposed sanction of revocation is within the
sanctioning guidelines in this case.

In determining an appropriate sanction, the Panel has considered Dr. Alexander’s conduct
and poor judgment in this case, which had potential to cause serious patient harm. The Panel has
also considered Dr. Alexander’s extensive prior disciplinary history with the Board dating back
to May of 2012 and that the Board’s previous attempts at rehabilitation have been unsuccessful.

In 2012, the Board found that Dr. Alexander was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, failed to meet the appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical
care, and failed to keep adequate medical records. The Board suspended Dr. Alexander’s license
for a minimum of three months and imposed a period of probation for a minimum of two years
with terms and conditions including evaluation by the Professional Rehabilitation Program and
one-on-one tutorials in medical ethics and record-keeping.

Shortly thereafter the Board received a complaint from the Office of Health Care Quality
(OHCQ) regarding an inspection conducted at Dr. Alexander’s office. The inspection revealed,
in part, that Dr. Alexander was performing surgical abortions at an unlicensed office facility
without licensed and properly trained medical staff. Based on the serious deficiencies noted in
the OHCQ inspection report, the Board issued a Cease and Desist order prohibiting Dr.
Alexander from performing surgical abortions, which was later modified to prohibit Dr.
Alexander from performing surgical abortions at unlicensed facilities. The Board also found that
Dr. Alexander was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in part, for
performing surgical abortions at an unlicensed facility. Dr. Alexander remains on probation and
he is prohibited from performing surgical abortions, which includes the use of any surgical

equipment, at his unlicensed office facility.

11
