in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22).'! The ALJ proposed that the charges be upheld and
recommended the revocation of Dr. Alexander’s medical license.

On June 3, 2016, Dr. Alexander filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision, and the
State filed a response to Dr. Alexander’s exceptions. On July 27, 2016, both parties appeared
before Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (“Board”) for
an oral exceptions hearing.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B adopts the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact numbers 1-44. See ALJ proposed
decision, attached as Exhibit 1. Neither party filed exceptions to any of the ALJ’s factual
findings, and the facts were proved by a preponderance of the evidence. These facts are
incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set forth in full.

On the evening of February 28, 2014, Patient A, a 27 year old woman from Denmark,
presented to Dr. Alexander’s office in Forestville, Maryland seeking to terminate her pregnancy
due to significant fetal abnormalities. At the time of the office visit, the gestational age of
Patient A’s fetus was estimated to be between 28 and 29 weeks. Dr. Alexander intended to
perform a medical induction abortion procedure due to the documented fetal abnormalities. Dr.
Alexander obtained Patient A’s medical history and conducted a medical examination, which
included an ultrasound and auscultation.’ Dr. Alexander did not detect a fetal heart rate through
either method and documented in the medical records no fetal heart rate and dead fetus in utero.

Dr. Alexander informed Patient A that there was no fetal heart rate and that she had the

option of returning to Denmark for the delivery of the stillborn fetus. Although he determined

‘In this decision, standards for the delivery of quality medical care and standard of care are used interchangeably.

* Auscultation is the action of listening to sounds from the heart, lungs, or other organs, typically with a stethoscope,
as a part of medical diagnosis.
