 

crown-rump length, rump-shoulder length, abdominal diameter, and chest diameter.” Resp. 16 p.
281; see also State 31 p. 302. He stated that patients were observed in the recovery room for one to
two hours or more.

The Respondent’s treatment of Patient A contrasted sharply with Dr. Hern’s practice.
The Respondent testified that his office was ten minutes from two hospitals. Given the address
of his office and the addresses of the two closest hospitals, I believe it would take more than ten
minutes to travel from his office to the closest hospital; however; for the purposes of this
decision I will accept the Respondent’s ten minute estimate. The Respondent testified that if an
emergency arose he would call 911 for an ambulance and he would call the emergency room and
speak to the obstetrician and gynecologist on call to give that doctor a summary of the patient.
He stated that he did not have a patient transfer agreement in place. Thus, the time it takes for an
ambulance to respond to the Respondent’s office must be added to the time it takes to travel from
the Respondent’s office to the hospital. The location of Dr. Hern’s office across the street from a
hospital provides a much quicker response time in the event of an emergency than the
Respondent’s situation.

The Respondent’s practice did not have any specialized equipment or staff. The
Respondent was barred by the Board from performing any surgical abortion procedures. He
testified that he sold all of his instruments to Dr. Moore, although he said he could use the
instruments if he needed to. On the evening of February 28, 2014 it appears there was a staff
person present assisting the Respondent; an illegible signature appears on one of the consent
forms in addition to Patient A’s and the Respondent’s signatures. The Respondent testified that
he occasionally has assistance from Angelica (last name not identified), Keiko Friday and his
daughter; however, none of these women are registered nurses or licensed by any health

occupation board in Maryland. In addition, there is no evidence showing anyone was assisting

26
