have either waited to go into labor naturally or Dr. Alexander could have referred the patient to a
higher level facility for the induction of labor and the delivery of the stillborn fetus. Dr.
Alexander appropriately recognized the fetal demise and informed Patient A that she could
return home to Denmark to give birth, but then proceeded with the procedure as if the fetus was
still viable. The absence of a fetal heart rate was definitively documented in the medical record
and Dr. Alexander admitted that he administered digoxin “to ensure fetal demise, even though
there was demise.” Without a fetal heart rate, however, there was no indication or reason to
administer digoxin.’ Dr. Alexander exercised poor clinical judgment by disregarding his own
medical assessment of the patient and treating the patient he expected rather than the patient who
actually presented. The Panel finds that in the absence of a fetal heart rate the intrauterine
administration of digoxin for fetal demise was unnecessary and not medically indicated.

Further, at 28 weeks, the delivery of a stillborn fetus needed to occur at a higher level of
care facility due to the increased risks involved. Patient A was a high risk patient due to the
advanced gestation of the fetus, the documented medical abnormalities of the fetus, and the
intrauterine fetal death that occurred at an unknown time during the pregnancy. All of these
factors increased the risk for infection and bleeding, the potential for complications to arise with
the delivery, and the possibility of requiring surgical intervention. The delivery of this 28-week
stillborn fetus involved greater risks when compared to the medically induced abortion that Dr.
Alexander originally intended to perform. Dr. Alexander failed to appreciate the increased risk

involved in the delivery of the stillborn fetus and exhibited poor clinical judgment when he

 

” In this decision, intrauterine fetal death, fetal death in utero, stillborn, and stillbirth are used interchangeably. Dr.
Alexander testified that “fetal death in utero would be considered stillbirth[.]”

® Dr. Alexander testified that he administered digoxin in order to avoid an unintended live birth and comply with the
Partial Birth Abortion Act. Dr. Alexander, however, did not document any doubt or question as to whether there
was a fetal heart rate in the medical records or his rationale for administering digoxin when there was already fetal
demise.
