unfair to charge him with a record keeping violation before he had completed the course. The
Respondent argued that the Board should have charged him with violating subsection (a)(40) if it
were pursing charges against him regarding how he stored his medical records. He argued
further that it was also unfair to charge him regarding how he stored his records when he had not
completed the record keeping course. The Respondent asserted that his conduct was not so
egregious as to rise to the level of unprofessional conduct.
Standard of Care

On the evening of February 28, 2014, Patient A presented to the Respondent requesting
an abortion because of fetal defects. She was twenty-eight weeks pregnant. Patient A gave the
Respondent her prior ultrasound records, the most recént of which showed severe fetal
anomalies. The Respondent gave Patient A several consent forms to sign; she signed most of
them but did not sign the one for anesthesia. The Respondent examined Patient A, performed an
ultrasound and found there was no fetal heart rate. He also auscultated and did not hear a fetal
heart rate. The Respondent described the events that evening as follows. Around 8:00 or
9:00 pm on February 28, 2014, he administered the following to Patient A: digoxin, lidocaine,
saline, Mifeprex, and laminaria. Around midnight, he administered Versed (midazolam) to
Patient A. He then released Patient A to her husband and they went to a hotel. Shortly before
5:00 am on March 1, 2014, Patient A called him and stated that she was in labor. Patient A met
him at his office around 5:00 am and he delivered her fetus at 9:00 am. He administered Pitocin
to Patient A and gave her a prescription for Percocet. He took Patient A’s vital signs after the
procedure at 9:15, 9:30, and 9:45 am and discharged her. Patient A left his office with her
husband and returned to her hotel. She did not return to his office for any follow up care.

Doctors Rafi and M. Browne (the State’s experts) testified that the Respondent’s

treatment of Patient A violated the standard of care. Dr. Rafi testified that the Respondent

17
