The State alleged that the Respondent also violated the standard of care when he injected digoxin
and lidocaine intra-amniotically after finding there was no fetal heart rate via ultrasound and
auscultation.

The State maintained there were material omissions in the Respondent’s medical record,
including the clear time and date medications were administered, the specific times the fetus and
placenta were delivered, Patient A’s estimated blood loss, a description of the fetal anomalies,
Apgar Scores, fetal weight, and specific counseling provided to Patient A. The State asserted the
Respondent failed to document that Patient A was released to a responsible person and went to a
hotel after receiving intravenous sedation the night before and the morning of the procedure.

The State maintained that the Respondent failed to document any monitoring of Patient A after
giving her intravenous sedation the night before the procedure and only documented three sets of
vital signs over forty-five minutes postpartum. The State argued that another provider reading
Patient A’s record would not be aware of her care history. The State contended that poor and
inadequate documentation constitutes substandard care. The State maintained that the
Respondent has been on notice since July 2012 that he needed to improve his record keeping.

The Respondent argued that it was not a violation of the standard of care to perform the
procedure on Patient A in his medical office. The Respondent asserted that there is no standard
of care regarding the use of digoxin in the absence of a fetal heart rate and its use did not pose an
undue risk to Patient A. The Respondent contended that digoxin is used to ensure compliance
with the Partial-Birth Abortion Act (to ensure a live birth does not occur), and for cervical
priming and softening fetal tissue. The Respondent acknowledged he had issues with his
medical record keeping but maintained that his records met basic requirements. The Respondent
claimed that he had not yet completed the record keeping course with Dr. Steinberg in March of

2014 but that the Board was aware he had not completed it. The Respondent asserted that it was

16
