18 (1999) (Notice is sufficient to satisfy due process concerns when “the gist of the charges . . .
and the gist of the Board’s findings” against the individual are consistent).
IV. Expert Witnesses

Dr. Alexander argues that the ALJ impermissibly gave greater weight to the testimony of
the State’s experts and contends that the Panel should give greater deference to Dr. C. Browne’s
testimony because of his specialized experience in the subspecialty of mid to late term medically
induced abortions.'* As discussed above, the Panel rejects Dr. Alexander’s characterization of
the procedure in this case as a medically induced abortion in light of the undisputed evidence that
the fetus was deceased prior to the procedure being performed. Dr. C. Browne’s testimony and
conclusions were premised on the fact that the procedure was a medically induced abortion,
which it was not.

The management of a stillbirth is a basic obstetric procedure and, according to the March,
2009 American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (“ACOG”) practice bulletin, after 28
weeks gestation, induction of labor for a stillbirth should be managed according to the usual
obstetric protocols. Dr. Rafi and Dr. M. Browne are Board-certified in obstetrics and
gynecology and had the requisite skill, knowledge, and expertise to testify on the standard of
care for the delivery of a stillborn fetus. Dr. Alexander does not dispute that Dr. Rafi and Dr. M.
Browne had the requisite knowledge and skill to be qualified as experts in obstetrics and
gynecology. The Panel agrees that all three doctors were properly qualified as experts in
obstetrics and gynecology and were sufficiently qualified to testify as experts on the topics at

issue in this case. The ALJ found that the testimony of the State’s experts outweighed the

* Dr. Alexander argues that the ALJ committed legal error by qualifying Dr. Rafi and Dr. M. Browne as experts in
mid to late term medically induced abortions. The Panel extensively reviewed the ALJ’s decision and the hearing
transcript and found no evidence to support that the ALJ qualified any of the witnesses as experts in mid to late term
medical abortions. Rather, the record demonstrates that the ALJ qualified Dr. Rafi, Dr. M. Browne, and Dr. C.
Browne all as experts in obstetrics and gynecology.
