including perforation of the uterine wall by an instrument. The Respondent did not plan to
perform Patient A’s abortion by vacuum or any other surgical procedure and was prohibited from
performing surgical abortions by the Board’s 2013 consent order.

17. The Respondent’s medical records for Patient A do not contain a consent form
describing the risks of a late term medical abortion in an office setting (one performed via
medicine only, without surgical procedures) or the risks of delivering a stillborn fetus in an office
setting.

18. The only mention of a late term abortion is the following: “For patients
undergoing second trimester (2-3 day) procedures, I understand that I am required to remain
within a 10 minute radius of the office during the entire process.” State 23.

19, The records contain a consent form for the use of anesthetics; however, it is not
signed by Patient A. The Respondent signed and dated the form February 28, 2014.

20. The Respondent examined Patient A. He documented that he could not detect a
fetal heart rate by auscultation or during an ultrasound.

21. According to the Respondent, on February 28, 2014, around 8:00 or 9:00 pm, he
administered the following to Patient A: digoxin, lidocaine, saline, Mifeprex, and laminaria.
Around midnight, the Respondent administered Versed (midazolam) to Patient A. The
Respondent then released Patient A to her husband and they went to a hotel.

22. The Respondent’s medical record for Patient A shows that the following were
administered: digoxin “1.5 mg”, “5 cc 1%” lidocaine, Mifeprex “200 p.o.”, and laminaria “x 9.”
However, the record does not state who administered the medications and laminaria or what time
any of the medications or laminaria were administered. Also, it is unclear whether the

medications and laminaria were administered on February 28 or March 1. The record does not

° The Respondent appears to have administered I.V. midazolam to Patient A at midnight on March 1, 2014. See
finding of fact 26. .
