performed an appropriate history and physical and determined that Patient A had an intrauterine
fetal death at twenty-eight weeks. Dr. Rafi stated that the standard of care required the
Respondent to refer Patient A to a higher level of care facility and keep her under observation.
Dr. Rafi explained that a higher level of care was required because the advanced gestational age
of the fetus put Patient A at higher risk of infection and bleeding. In addition, Dr. Rafi stated
that the fetal abnormalities placed Patient A at higher risk of infection and bleeding. Further, Dr.
Rafi stated the fact that the fetus: was dead for an unknown period of time placed Patient A at a
higher risk of bleeding. Dr. Rafi testified that possible complications during the delivery were
another reason a higher level of care was required. Dr. Rafi explained that complications, such
as the fetus becoming entrapped and only partially delivered, would require certain instruments
to facilitate the delivery, that is, surgical intervention. Dr. Rafi testified that the Respondent
administered Mifeprex, laminaria, digoxin, and lidocaine the evening of February 28, 2014 and
then released Patient A to a hotel, which violated the standard of care. Dr. Rafi described the
Respondent’s delivery of Patient A’s fetus in his office as dangerous and opined that he breached
the standard of care.

Dr. M. Browne testified that the standard of care for a patient with fetal demise at
twenty-eight weeks required a higher level of care, such as labor and delivery or the operating
room in a hospital, a surgical suite, a birthing center, or an ambulatory care center with surgical
capabilities. Dr. M. Browne opined that the Respondent’s medical office without any specialized
surgical equipment or staff did not meet the standard of care. Dr. M. Browne explained that the
higher level of care was necessary for the safety of the mother. Dr. M. Browne stated that
complications could arise, such as excessive blood loss or uterine rupture, which would require

specialty care.

18
