When Petitioner entered his Alford plea to the crime of second degree assault, the

record clearly shows that he (1) never withdrew his plea of not guilty to the sexual

offense charge, and (2) expressly denied that he had committed either an assault or

a sexual offense. The record also shows that the Circuit Court had no opportunity

to evaluate the strength of the proffered evidence that Petitioner had actually

committed a fourth degree sexual offense rather than a second degree assault.
Rudman, 414 Mad. at 260-61.

The instant case is distinguishable from Rudman in two respects. First, Dr. Torres elected
and received a three-day court bench trial before he was convicted of second-degree assault and
fourth-degree sexual offense. Second, unlike Dr. Rudman who entered an Alford plea to second-
degree assault, Dr. Torres was found guilty of both second-degree assault and fourth-degree sexual
offense. The Circuit Court Judge had the ability to hear testimony from all witnesses called in the
case, weighed the evidence, and found Dr. Torres guilty of second-degree assault and fourth-
degree sexual offense. The Judge found that Dr. Torres used his position, as the Patient’s
pediatrician, to gain the trust of the Patient, and that he abused the Patient and touched her in a
sexual manner, without her consent, not for any accepted medical purpose.

Based on the Judge’s findings in this case and the elements of the crimes, the Panel finds
that Dr. Torres acted “contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and duty” that he owes
to his fellow citizens in the State of Maryland and that his conduct was base, vile, and shameful.
Walman, 280 Md. at 459. Dr. Torres betrayed the trust of his patient and used his position of
authority to the detriment of the patient. The Panel finds that Dr. Torres’s convictions for second-
degree assault and fourth-degree sexual offense are crimes involving moral turpitude.

Upon determining that a licensee has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude,
Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1) requires a disciplinary panel to order the suspension of a license while

any appellate proceedings are pending.

10
