 

D. Analysis

It is undisputed from the Respondent’s interview with the FPD, his written response to. the
Board, the Patient’s testimony, and her medical records from the Respondent, that the Respondent
saw the Patient at his office on April 26, 2019, fora medication follow-up appointment, The
Respondent in his written response stated that while he moved from her right to left lower quadrant,
he might have brushed briefly the upper edges of her vagina, but never rubbed the clitoris or
digitally penetrated her.

In the Respondent’s interview by the detective, he said he might have touched her vagina
while transitioning from one side of her abdomen to the other, He said it was the upper portion of
the vagina, and it was for examination purposes. The Respondent stated that with his hands down
the Patient’s pants.for about two minutes, he may have brushed the top of her vagina,

The core issue for decision is whether the Respondent conducted a routine examination
during which he unintentionally brushed the Patient’s vagina, as opposed to intentionally and
improperly touching her genitalia, I must agree with the State that the Respondent’s innocuous
explanation is not credible in light of the record taken as a whole.

The Patient’s medical record states the reason for the appointment was “med check per Dr,
Torres” and was to last fifteen minutes. (Bd. Ex. #17, bates no, 000184), Instead, the Patient was in
the office for over an hour, during which the Respondent.had his hands down her pants for at least
two minutes, making contact with the top of her vagina, There was neither a chaperone present
during the examination, nor any staff member present in the office by the time the Patient departed.

A member of the Respondent’s-staff, Stephanie Cavanaugh, told the detective who
conducted the criminal investigation that she has never had any issue with the Patient, and that when
a patient is physically examined, either the parent or a staff member is in the room during the

examination. (Bd. Ex. #15, bates no. 000049), The Respondent’s argument that he engaged ina

-17-
