 

so, She spoke to thé administrative prosecutors before thie hearing to discuss her testimony, and has
met with the Assistant State’s Attorney handing the criminal case against the Respondent, but not to
other attorneys: She mentioned to her ex-boyfriend the idea of possibly suing the Respondent, She
has not joined a victims? rights organization or discussed this matter on social media.

C. The Respondent's Prior Statements

The Respondent did not testify, but the record includes (a) the transcripts of an April 29,
2019 FPD detective’s interview of the Respondent, (b) the Respondent’s May 14, 2019 letter to the
Board in which he responded to the Patient’s allegations, (c) the transcript of the Respondent's May
23, 2019 interview with the Board, and (d) the patient's medical records from the Respondent’s
office.

In his April 29, 2019 recorded interview with the FPD detective’, the Respondent confirmed
he saw the Patient on April 26,2019, for a scheduled one-month follow-up appointment regarding
her anxiety medication. She had been his patient her entire life, She is diagnosed with general
anxiety disorder and panic attacks, and this visit was a follow-up to sec how she was doing with the
medication, He listened to her heart, looked at her throat, and checked her abdomen, Initially she
was fine, but started crying as they were talking about her anxiety attacks, She cried for quite a
while intermittently.

He examined her abdomen and hypogastrium? area with his hands, His hands were
underneath her pants as he was examining her lower abdomen for about two minutes, Asked if he
ever touched her vagina, he said he might have touched the upper portion of her vagina while

transitioning from one side to the other. He told the detective he might have touched her vagina,

8 The detective conducted a preliminary interview of the Respondent on April 29, 2019, which the detective
summarized in Board Ex, 4, bates 000013-14. This preliminary interview was followed by a recorded interview, the
transcript of which is Bd, Ex. # 12, The Respondent’s statements in the two Interviews are consistent,

° The hypogastrium is “that part of the central abdomen which is situated below the region of the stomach,”
https://vww.ox fordreference.com/view/10,1093/oi/authority.20 1 10803095954496

-15-

 
