 

She had been a patient of the Respondent since she was one week old. During her freshman
year she saw the Respondent for a physical examination i connection with her participation in
college sports. She plays field hockey. At the end of the semester, she saw the Respondent for
anxiety, Which had worsened when she went to college. In March 2019, the Respondent prescribed
sertialine (brand name Zoloft)’ and clonazepam (brand name Klonopiit) 7 and diagnosed her as
having generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). He stated it would take two weeks for the medication to
achieve full effects, so he wanted her to check in to see if the dosage should be increased.

The Patient only took the clonazepam a few times because she reported that it made her feel
out of it, and like a vegetable. She explained the difference between the anxiety and panic attacks
she experiences, When she has an anxiety attack she can stil function and speak, but gets upset and

sweaty. When she has a panic-attack, she is freaking out, has a hard time getting words out, her

| i
mind does not Jet her think, and she becomes sweaty and red-faced, She has a panic attack when she |

has to make an oral presentation, and has anxiely attacks when meeting with professors and
teachers. When she has a panic attack, she can sometimes lose track of time and feel something
lasted longer than it did in reality,

On April 26, 2019, she retuned from college to Frederick for a sclieduled follow-up
appointment with the Respondent. The appointment was scheduled for 4:00 p.m.; she signed in at
3:57 p.m. The nurse said the doctor would be with her shortly as he was with a patient, The nurse
took her weight on a scale and checked her blood pressure. Her blood pressure was high because of
anxiety. The nurse said the Respondent would be with her in ten to fifteen minutes, The wait did not

help the anxiety.

6 Zoloft is the brand name of sertraline, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) used to treal symploms
including anxiety, See https://www.drugs,com/sertraline.hitml,

7 Clonazepam, the brand name:of which is Klonopin, is a benzodiazepine used to treat symptoms including anxiety.
See https:/Avww.drugs.com/clonazepam.html

-12-

 
