 

When she has a panic attack, her heart rate increases, She was sweating and crying and, told |

the Respondent that she could not breathe and needed a tissue, so the Respondent got her a tissue

box, and she sat up. That was when he removed his hand from under her leggings. She remembered |
the examination room had.a theme of horses and no window. The door was closed. The Respondent |
hugged her frontally at some point.

Afterwards, the Respondent talked about politics and what she described as random topics
unrelated to her anxiety medication, He asked her who her judge was in her head telling her to do
better, and she said it was her dad, The Respondent told her not to listen to that voice, and
complimented her on being a smart kid, He walked her down the hallway. No one was in the
reception area, and the computer screens were black, The Respondent offered to let her shadow him,
as she had previously expressed interest in being a physician assistant, but said it would havetobe |
after hours, a comment she did not like. She has not returned to his office.

During her prior visits for anxiety consultation, the Respondent checked her heart rate,
blood pressure, and ears but did not perform an abdominal examination, During hicr annual physical
examinations, he did perform an abdominal examination, but only went about two inches below the |
navel. This time he moved lower down. She had previously been alone with the Respondent once or |
twice, but usually her mother and brother would be present,

She did not complain about abdominal issues on April 26, 2019. She expected to talk about

. her anxiety and her self-conception. The Respondent did not say why he was examining her
abdomen or putting liis hand under her pants, While he touched her, the thought crossed her mind to
get up and leave, but he was standing over her with his right hand down her pants, and she would
have had to push him out of the way.

She testified the incident made her anxiety worse because it is emotional for her to telive it,

and she has to keep facing it. She has not gone into therapy, despite her parents pushing her to do

-14-

 
