FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B finds the following:

1, On May 3, 2019, Dr. Torres was indicated by a Grand Jury of Frederick County, Maryland
in the Circuit Court for Frederick County, Maryland in State of Maryland v. Ernesto Cesar
Torres, Case No.: C-10-CR-19-000357, with: Count 1 (Rape-Second Degree), Count 2
(Sex Offense-Fourth Degree); and Count 3 (Assault-Second Degree).

2. Dr. Torres pleaded not guilty to the charges, and on October 29, 2019, waived his right to
a jury trial and elected to proceed with a bench trial. After a three-day trial, on November
1, 2019, the presiding judge issued a verdict acquitting Dr. Torres of Second-Degree Rape
(Count 1) but finding him guilty of Fourth-Degree Sex Offense (Count 2), in violation of
Crim. Law § 3-308(b)(1)? and Second-Degree Assault (Count 3), in violation of Crim. Law
§ 3-203.4

3. In issuing his ruling, the Judge made the following factual findings, which included:

The principal witness for the State was [the Patient]. The Court paid
particular attention to the manner of her testimony. She stated that she had
been having anxiety attacks and had consulted her lifelong pediatrician, Dr.
Torres, who is the defendant in his matter.

Her initial appointment for this preceded the appointment in
question. She was accompanied by her mother for the initial appointment
as she had been so virtually all her life. [The Patient] was prescribed
medication at that appointment and a follow-up appointment was made for
April 26, 2019 for a medication check. This is appropriate because the
physician needs to know if the medication is working and how the patient
is otherwise responding or reacting to the medication.

[The Patient] testified she kept her appointment on 4/26. She drove
from Frostburg State where she is a student directly to Dr. Torres’s office.
She was unaccompanied probably for the first time in her life. . .

She was taken to the exam room where she was seen by Dr. Torres
after the nurse took preliminary information. The Court finds that Dr.
Torres conducted this exam with [the Patient] alone without a chaperon[e]
and in fact during the exam all of the personnel in the office left for the day.

3 Crim. Law § 3.308(b)(1) states: “A person may not engage in. . . sexual contact with another without the consent of
the other[.] Sexual contact is defined as: “an intentional touching of the victim’s or actor’s genital, anal, or other
intimate area for sexual arousal or gratification, or for the abuse of either party... “Sexual contact” does not include:
. .. (ii) an act for an accepted medical purpose.” Crim. Law § 3-301 (e).

+ Crim. Law § 3.203 states: “A person may not commit an assault.”

3
