The testimony was initiated while she was seated. Dr. Torres asked
about other anxiety attacks or issues. [The Patient] said just talking about
it made her anxious and she began to get an anxiety attack. At this point
Dr. Torres had her stand and then lie on an examination table.

The testimony continued by stating that he began an exam of her
which included an exam of her abdominal area. To do the, to do this he
lifted [the Patient’s] clothing waistband and inserted his hand which went,
pursuant to [the Patient’s] testimony, went straight down and touched her
in a circular motion just above the clitoris within the lips of the labia majora.
Dr. Torres was not gloved with latex gloves at the time. [The Patient]
estimated this lasted approximately five minutes. Testimony from [the
Patient] was that she had no physical complaint on 4/26 and related none to
Dr. Torres.

4. The Judge then applied the facts to the law, as follows:

The elements of second degree assault are (1). . . that the defendant
caused offensive physical contact with [the Patient] and (2) that the contact
was intentional or reckless, not accidental and the contact was not consented
to by [the Patient].

Based upon the facts found as previously stated the Court finds that
the defendant caused physical contact with the defendant [sic.] to her
genitals, that the contact was offensive as it was not consented to. And that
the contact was an intentional act of the defendant and was not accidental
therefore I deny the defendant’s motion for acquittal both as it was midtrial
and at the end of the trial and I find the defendant guilty of Count 3, second
degree assault.

Count 2 is fourth degree sexual offense whose elements are (1) that
the defendant had sexual contact with [the Patient] and (2) that sexual
contact was made against the will and without the consent of [the Patient].
Case law makes clear that the terms against the will and without consent are
virtually synonymous.

Sexual contact is defined in criminal law 3-301(e)(1). Sexual
contact means an intentional touching of the victim’s . . . genital area for
sexual arousal or gratification or for abuse of either party. Criminal law 3-
301(e)(2) states sexual contact does not include . . . [anJact for accepted
medical purposes.

The Court does not find that this contact was for any accepted
medical purpose. The crux of the issue is whether or not sexual contact took

4
