process under Health Occ. § 14-404(b) is not the appropriate forum to re-litigate or challenge the
underlying conviction. Jd. at 396, 304.

After considering Dr. Torres’s answer either in writing or at a hearing, the disciplinary
panel is required to determine whether the crime involves moral turpitude, and then is required to
issue an appropriate order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1). The Panel has considered Dr. Torres’s
written response to the petition and will now address whether fourth-degree sex offense and
second-degree assault are crimes involving moral turpitude.

Crime Involving Moral Turpitude

Under Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1), a disciplinary panel has the obligation and discretion to
determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral turpitude for licensing and disciplinary
purposes. Maryland appellate courts have held that the term “moral turpitude” is more broadly
defined with respect to Board licensure and discipline than in a witness impeachment context. See
Ricketts v. State, 291 Md. 701, 711-12 (1981) (“[W]hat constitutes a crime of moral turpitude may
involve different considerations compelling different results in different circumstances.”). In the
context of licensure and discipline, the term moral turpitude “strikes the broader chord of public
confidence in the administration of government. That is, a person who has credibility to testify [at
trial] may not have the public’s confidence to practice certain professions[.]” Stidwell v. Maryland
State Bd. of Chiropractic Exam’rs, 144 Md. App. 613, 619 (2002). Thus, it is well established that
“in the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the concept of moral
turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Md. State Bd. of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 483 (2005).
In the licensure context, “[t]he term ‘moral turpitude’ has been defined generally as importing ‘an
act of baseness, vileness or depravity in the private and social duties which a man owes to his

fellow men, or to society in general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and duty
