place. The Court has previously found and does so again here that the
contact was against the will and without the consent of [the Patient].

The Court finds, excuse me, the facts the Court finds relevant to this
issue are (1) the doctor and his patient were alone both in the examination
room and ultimately in the entire office. Two, the location of the touching
was inside the outer lips of the vagina itself, not just above the clitoris.

Three, the touching occurred without the defendant wearing latex
gloves which would increase the defendant’s tactile sensation. Four,
defendant’s hands moved in a circular motion over the area of the body as
described. And five, the duration was sustained somewhere between one
and five minutes pursuant to the differing statements. The Court notes that
seconds can feel like minutes when a touching of this type is without
consent.

Likewise, I do not leave my common sense at home when I come to
work each day. The actions of the defendant as found by the Court are
sexual in nature and therefore the Court finds they are for sexual
gratification. Further, the Court finds that contact by the defendant
constitutes an abuse of this patient.

The relationship of doctor to patient is inherently unequal. Ms.
Johnson had seen him her entire 18 years minus one week. He was her
pediatrician. He was her doctor who treated her as a child all the way up to
the last time she saw him. [The Patient] did not react as a young woman
would but as a child patient of a pediatrician trying to make sense of what
was happening to her during this event.

Her reactions did not become adult like until she left when she said
she felt disgusting. Using his position the trust he gained in that, and the
trust he gained in that position to take advantage of his patient constitutes
abuse. Therefore, the Court finds that defendant had sexual contact with
[Patient] against her will and without her consent. The Court therefore
denied the motion for acquittal of, the two motions of acquittal and finds
the defendant guilty of fourth degree sexual offense.

On December 23, 2019, Dr. Torres appeared before the Circuit Court for Frederick County
Maryland for sentencing. The Court merged Count 3 (Assault- Second Degree) with Count

5
