 

( * . )
ee . “ent an

Talso admitted the following exhibits into evidence as ALJ exhibits:

ALJ Ex, #1 CD of audio recording of Board’s Interview with Patient, May 29,
20198 .
ALJ Ex. #2 CD of audio recotding of FPD’s Interview with Respondent, April
29, 2019
ALJ Ex. #3 CD of audio recording of Board’s Interview with Respondent, May
23, 2019 ‘
Testimony

The Board presented the testimony of Molly Dicken, Board Compliance Analyst.
/ The Respondent presented the testiniony offffesieny.
‘ WINDINGS OF FACT

 

Having considered the evidence presented, J find the following facts by a preponderance of
the evidence:
1, At all times relevant, the Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland on June 21, 2019, under License No, D23651.
2, At all times relevant, the Respondent was a solo practitioner practicing pediatrics

and adolescent medicine at an office in Frederick, Maryland.

* Respondent objected to the admission of the transoript of the Board’s recorded interviow of the Patient and the
transcripts of the two recorded interviews of the Respondent (one by PD and the ather by the Board), on the ground
that the best ovidence of the Interviews was the audlo recordings of the interviews, The Board had produced to the
Respondent the transcript of each interview in discovery, but did uot produce the audio recordings, J overruled the
Respondent's objection, and ndmitted the transcripts in evidence as Bd, Exs, 12, 19, and 20, During the hearing the
administrative prosecutors cmafled to Respondent's counsel and to me the audio files of the three intorviews. Prior
to the conclusion of the hearing the OAH medla office downlonded the audio files onto throc soparale CDs, Without
objection, I admitted the CDs as ALJ Exs, 1 (corresponding:to Bd, Ex, 12), 2 (corresponding to Bd, Bx, fF 19), and
3 (corresponding to Bd. #20), respectively. See July 26, 2019 Heating Transcript, at pp, 218-20,

The Paticnt’s initials are used to protect her privacy.

 
