routine, standard physical examination was thus contradicted by his own staff. Also suspicious is
the Respondent’s performance of an examination of the Patient's lower abdomen when she was in
his office for a fifteen minute medication check, and had reported no abdominal complaints.

I found the Patient to be a highly credible witness. Her accounts to the police and the Board,
and her testimony at the hearing, were all consistent, She directly responded to the appropriately
probing questions of the Respondent’s counsel, who called her to testify.

She did not embellish or exaggerate. For example, she consistently denied the Respondent
touched her clitoris or digitally penetrated her, In fact, in her written statement to the police, she

initially wrote; “He proceeded to ask my [sic] questions about my recent anxiety attack as-he began

to lower his finger to my clitoris, For about five minutes his fingers rubbed on there.” (Bd, Ex, #3, at

bates 000004). However, she crossed out the word “on” in the second sentence, which I take as her
indication that the Respondent was moving his hand toward (but not “on”) the clitoris, (/d.) During
her testimoiny, she drew a diagram of the female anatomy on which she wrote “Torres hand” and
drew what appears to be a representation of two fingers pointing down, between the labia majora
and (but not touching) the clitoris, both of which she labeled on the drawing . See Resp, Ex. # 1.

It was manifestly painful for the Patient to testify and relive the incident. Though she cried
several times during the hearing, I did not find that she over-dramatized the incident, Rather, I found
her demeanor, including her displays of emotion, to be consistent with her assertion that she had felt
very violated by the Respondent’s action.

1 did not have the opportunity to evaluate the demeaior of the Respondent, who did not
testify. The Respondent certainly was not required to testify at the licaring given the pending
criminal charges against him relating to this matter. However, the fact remains that as between the
Respondent and the Patient, only the Patient was subjected to cross-examination under oath, the

time-honored technique used to test a witness’s credibility.

-18-

1

 
