Dr. Torres acknowledges the disciplinary panel’s authority to act whether or not any appeal
is pending but argues that the findings of the circuit court should not be relied upon while the
matter is pending in the appellate courts. Dr. Torres cites no legal authority that would allow the
Panel to ignore the Board’s statutes and regulations, which require the Board to order the
suspension of a license if a licensee is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, whether or
not any appeal or other proceeding is pending to have the conviction set aside. See Health Occ. §
14-404(b)(1); COMAR 10.32.02.07H(2). This process is distinguished from Health Occupations
Article § 14-404(b)(2), which requires the revocation of a license after completion of the appellate
process, if the conviction has not been reversed.

Dr. Torres also argues that, due to his mental status and commitment to MDH, he was not
able to assist counsel with a response to the petition and argued that his mental status and current
commitment to MDH should be considered as an “other relevant issue” to justify the request for
the stay and postponement of the hearing on the petition. Dr. Torres, however, was entitled to be
represented by counsel, and, in fact, did respond to the petition through counsel. See COMAR
10.32.02.07F(1). Counsel for Dr. Torres does not explain how Dr. Torres’s assistance would affect
the outcome or be useful in this administrative proceeding where the decision is based on the
already adjudicated criminal conviction. See Md. Bd. of Physician Quality Assur, v. Felsenberg,
351 Md. 288, 303 (1998) (explaining that the determination of whether a crime involves moral
turpitude may be resolved without the need for evidence or fact-finding because the determination

rests solely on the underlying criminal conviction and judgment). As the Court ruled, the Board’s

> According to the documents submitted by Dr. Torres in his response, Dr. Torres was found to be mentally
incompetent to stand trial in a separate criminal case. The finding of mental incompetence to stand trial is limited to
criminal cases and does not apply to administrative proceedings.

7
