 

!

preponderance of the evidence that the summary suspension of the health care provider's license to
practice medicine should be sustained,

It is well settled that “the Due Process Clause provides that certain substantive rights —
life, liberty, and property ~ cannot be deprived except pursuant to constitutionally adequate
procedures,” Cleveland Ba. of Educ. vy. Loudermill, 470 U.S, 532, 541 (1985). The right to due
process “is conferred, not by legislative grace, but by constitutional guarantee. While the
legislature may elect not to confer a property interest in employment, it may not constitutionally
authorize the deprivation of such an interest, once conferred, without appropriate procedural
safeguards.” Id. Thus, Maryland’s pre-deprivation procedures must satisfy Constitutional due
process requirements embodied in the Fourteenth Amendment. By requiring a contested case
hearing based on a preponderance of the evidence, Maryland’s procedures more than meet the
minimum Constitutional standards.> Md. Code Ann. State Gov’t §§ 10-217 and-226(c)(2) (2018).

Il. THE PARTIES’ CONTENTIONS

 

The Board contends that the evidence establishes the Respondent engaged in inappropriate
sexual contact with a patient. It argued the Respondent’s action constituted immoral or
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, and this behavior raises a substantial likelihood
of risk of serious harm to the public health, safety, or welfare, Health Oce, § 14-404(a)(3)() and (ii),
warranting the summary suspension of his license to practice medicine in Maryland,

‘The Respondent responded that his contact with Patient was incidental to an appropriate
physical examination, and that there is no substantial evidence upon which the Board could properly

have found either that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action,

* "The due process clauses of Article 24 of (he Maryland Declaration of Rights and the fourteenth amendment to the
federal constitution have the same meaning; and we have said that Supreme Court interpretations of the federal
provision are authority for interpretation of Article 24,,.." Dep't of Transp, v. Armacost, 299 Md. 392, 415 (1984).

-10-

 
