 

10,32.02.08. In turn, COMAR 10,32.02.02B(18) defines “imperatively requires” as an action
required “as a result of factual. contentions which raise a substantial likeliliood of risk of serious

harm to the public health, safety, or welfare before an evidentiary hearing governed by the

Administrative Procedure Act is likely to be completed and result in a final order.” “[T]he phrase |

‘jmperatively requires’ describes the circumstances that will satisfy section 10-226(c)(2)(i)'s
requirement.of an emergency and signals the degree of exigency contemplated for summary
suspension orders.” Board of Physician Quality Assur. v. Mullan, 381 Md. 157, 166 (2004).
That degree of exigency lias been demonstrated in.this case. The Respondent’s conduct reflects on
the Respondent’s fitness to practice medicine, The conduct caused the Patieit actual harm; and
raises reasonable concerns that he may continue to abuse the status of being a physician in such a
way as to harm patients or diminish the standing of the medical profession in the eyes of a
reasonable member of the general public, See Finucan v. Board of Physicians, 380 at 604.

I conclude that the Board has proved by a preponderanice of the evidence that the
Respondent’s continued practice of medicine raises a substantial likelihood of risk of serious harm
to the public health, safety, or welfare. He engaged in inappropriate sexual contact with a
vulnerable, eighteen year-old patient, who saw lim for anxiety and panic attacks. The concern is
acute because the Respondent’s patient population is made up of potentially vulnerable children and
adolescents, Thus, the Respondent’s conduct imperatively demonstrates the degree of exigency
needed for a summary suspension.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude, as a‘matter of law,
(1) that the State Board of Physicians proved by a preponderance of the evidence that the
Respondent engaged in immoral or unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, and (2)

that the summary suspension of the Respondent’s license to practice medicine on May 28, 2019 is

-20-

 
