 

I find the Patient’s testimony at the hearing, which was-consistent with her prior statements
to the police and the Board, was more credible than the Respondent’s statements ini his interviews
with the police and his response letter to the Board, I give substantial weighit to the following factors
bearing on credibility: the Patient’s demeanor on the witness stand was credible; her prior
statements and hearing testimony were both highly detailed (for example, she recalled the
examination room’s theme was horses, and that it had no windows), as well as consistent; the
Respondent suspiciously performed a physical exam without a chaperone on a young female patient
who had no abdominal complaint; and an appointment that was supposed to be.a fifteen minute
medication check lasted much longer.

Therefore, I reject the Respondent’s contention that he merely accidentally brushed the top
of the Patient’s vagina in the course of a routine examination, Rather, I conclude that the contact
with the Patient’s vaginal area was improper and unprofessional, The Patient credibly testified that
the Respondent’s action exacerbated her anxiety. I find that the Respondent thereby caused the
Patient actual harm,

The Respondent’s conduct was immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine. A physician’s sexual misconduct involving a patient provides the basis for disciplinary
action, including license suspension, See Finucan v, Board of Physicians, 380 Md, 577, 604 (2004),
cert, denied, 125 S. Ct, 227 (2004) (physician’s sexual relationships with patients were immoral or
unprofessional cofiduet in the practice of medicine), and Shirazi v. Board of Physicians, 199 Md.
App. 469, 477 (2011) (physician’s sexual assault of patient was immoral or unprofessional.conduct
in-the practice of medicine).

As previously noted, summary suspensions are governed by the Administrative
Procedure Act which permits suspension if “the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively

requires emergency action.” Md. Code Ann., State Govt § 10-226(c)(2)(2018); COMAR

-19-

 
