Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Kamakshi Neelkantan, M.D.

Letier of Surrender
Page 2

Show Cause, because I no tonger wish to comply with the terms of the 2021 Consent Order, and
because I am retiring from the practice of medicine, | acknowledge that the allegations in the
Violation of Boatd Order and Notice to Show Cause are treated as proven and the 2021 Consent
Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon
acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the
Order as long as 1 do not have or possess an active medical license in Maryland.

1 wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing to comply with
the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I
understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest the
Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause in a formal hearing at which 1 would have
had the right to counsel and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law.

T understand thal the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. T algo understand that in the event |
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq.
(2019), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

Taffirm that T will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. T also agree to surrender my
Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration,

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license in
Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement, In the event
that | apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel A or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms
and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of
the integrity and reputation of the profession. 1 further understand that if I file a petition for

_ reinstatement, 1 will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

Lacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. | consulted with and was
represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine
in Maryland. t understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. T
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of
this Letter of Surrender. 1 make this decision knowingly and voluntarily,

Very truly yours,

. A eZ
Signature on File

/

' Kamakshi Neelkantan, M.D. ‘

SS

 
