 

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Serena R. Nolan, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

that the allegations that 1 violated the June 13, 2019 Consent Order for failing to comply
with the requirements of MPRP will be treated as proven.

~ [have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations. I acknowledge that the
Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however,
upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, { will not be required to comply with the
conditions of the Order as long as 1 do not have ot possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that 1 have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
violating the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. 1 do not wish to contest these
allegations. 1 understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender ] am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

1 understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.

§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender

my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

1 further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board or a disciplinary panel of the Board
grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License,
[understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions in conformity with or in
addition to those set forth in the Consent Order. 1 further understand that if I ever file a

petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as
an individual whose license has been revoked.

Tacknowledge that 1 may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that | have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
