—
a

fictitious and fraudulent statement, in that the lesion was substantially less than 80 to
90 percent.

(d) Count Four: On or about December 12, 2005, Dr. McLean knowingly and willfully
caused an entry in a patient’s medical record to state that the lesion in the patient’s
right coronary artery (“RCA”) was 80 to 90 percent, well knowing that the medical
record contained a materially false, fictitious and fraudulent statement and entry, in
that the lesion was substantially less than 80 to 90 percent.

(e) Count Five: On or about March 29, 2006, Dr. McLean knowingly and willfully
caused an entry in a patient’s medical record to state that the lesion in the patient’s
LAD was 80 percent, well knowing that the medical record contained a materially
false, fictitious and fraudulent statement and entry, in that the lesion was considerably
less than 80 percent.

(f) Count Seven: On or about July 24, 2006, Dr. McLean knowingly and willfully
caused an entry in a patient’s medical record to state that the lesion in the patient’s
LAD was 80 to 90 percent, well knowing that the medical record contained a
materially false, fictitious and fraudulent statement and entry, in that the lesion was
substantially less than 80 to 90 percent.

In convicting Dr. McLean of health care fraud and making false statements relating to
health care matters, the jury found that he had implanted medically-unnecessary cardiac
stents in more than 100 patients. He also prescribed unnecessary follow up diagnostic
tests — for example, nuclear stress tests — and he falsified patient medical records to
establish the necessity of the procedures. After receiving a subpoena from the U.S.
Attorney’s Office, Dr. McLean began to shred medical files. In fact, when the agents
executed a search warrant, he was discovered going through subpoenaed patient files and
apparently putting the contents into a shred box.

The federal court also stated that Dr. McLean’s criminal acts were not due to physical
handicaps, incompetence, or lack of training, but were “largely for the money.” In the
court’s view, it was clear that Dr. McLean implanted unnecessary stents and prescribed
unnecessary diagnostic procedures for the basest of reasons — greed.

. On November 10, 2011, the federal court sentenced Dr. McLean to 97 months

imprisonment, followed by three (3) years of supervised release as to Counts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
and 7, all to run concurrently and to include a special condition of mental health
counseling. The court imposed a special assessment of $600 and restitution in the amount
of $579,070.

. On November 15, 2011, Dr. McLean filed an appeal of his criminal conviction.

. On April 23, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit issued an Opinion

affirming Dr. McLean’s convictions and sentence. The appellate court concluded, inter
alia, that direct evidence supported the jury’s verdict of Dr. McLean’s fraudulent scheme
to defraud insurers, that he submitted claims for medically unnecessary stent procedures,
that he willfully misrepresented the level of stenosis in patients’ arteries, and recorded
stenosis of 10% to 95% for lesions of no more than 10% to 30% in numerous cases.
