6. Dr. McLean was represented by counsel throughout the criminal proceedings in his case.

7. On July 29, 2011, following the trial, a federal jury found Dr. McLean guilty of all counts
with exception to Count 6, which the prosecutor dismissed with prejudice prior to the
trial. The six counts of which Dr. McLean was found guilty, in violation of 18 U.S.C.
§1347,? and 18 U.S.C. §1035(a)(2),° were as follows:

Counts 1-5, 7: Health Care Fraud (18 U.S.C. §1347) and False Statements Relating to
Health Care Matters (18 U.S.C. §1035(a)(2))

(a) Count One: Beginning at least in 2003 and continuing through May 2007, Dr.
McLean knowingly and willfully submitted insurance claims to Medicare, Medicaid
and private insurers for medically unnecessary stent procedures that he performed and
for unnecessary cardiac testing and procedures that he ordered on patients. Dr.
McLean falsely documented on patient records the need for said testing and
procedures for the purpose of increasing his profit and revenue and personally
profited from this scheme to defraud.

(b) Count Two: On or about September 8, 2005, Dr. McLean knowingly and willfully
caused an entry in a patient’s medical record to state that the lesion in the patient’s
left anterior artery (“LAD”) was 80 percent, well knowing that the medical record
contained a materially false, fictitious and fraudulent statement and entry, in that the
lesion was substantially less than 80 percent.

(c) Count Three: On or about November 2, 2005, Dr. McLean knowingly and willfully
caused an entry in a patient’s medical record to state that the lesion in the patient’s
LAD was 80 to 90 percent, well knowing that this entry contained a materially false,

* Section 347 of the United States Code provides:
Health care fraud
(a) Whoever knowingly and willfully executes, or attempts to execute, a scheme or artifice —
(1) to defraud any health care program; or
(2) to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representation, or promises, any of the money
or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any health care program, in connection
with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items, or services, shall be fined under
this title or imprisoned not more than 10 years or both.
(b) With respect to violations of this section, a person need not have actual knowledge of this section or
specific intent to commit a violation of this section.
18 U.S.C. §1347.

* Section 1035 of the United States Code provides:
False statements relating to health care matters
(a) Whoever, in any matter involving a health care benefit program, knowingly and willfully—
(1) Falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or
(2) Makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations, or makes or uses
any materially false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false,
fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, in connection with the delivery of or payment for
health care benefits, items, or services, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 5
years or both.
18 U.S.C. §1035.
