Bernard A. Cohen

September 13, 2023

Date:
——
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Bernard A Cohen, M.D.
License Number: D26518
Case Number: 7723-0074

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D26518, effective
immediately. I understand that upon the surrender of my license, I may not practice
medicine, with or without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 er seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I] understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

[ understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board originally opened an investigation based’ on a
Mandated 10-Day Report from my place of employment reporting my voluntary
resignation of my medical staff membership and clinical privileges while under
investigation. My license to practice medicine was summarily suspended on May 11, 2022
and I was subsequently charged with being professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent. As a resolution to the charges, I entered into a Consent Order with Panel B
on July 21, 2022 that concluded, as a matter of law, that I violated the disciplinary ground
as alleged, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4). The Consent Order terminated the summary
suspension, suspended my license, and required that I undergo a comprehensive evaluation
by the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program and/or its agents to determine my
fitness to practice medicine safely.
