(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medicine;

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

(2) The Respondent shall undergo a comprehensive evaluation by the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (MPRP) and/or its agents to determine
the Respondent’s fitness to practice medicine safely. The following conditions
apply:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to make
arrangements for the evaluation;

(b) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals and directives for the evaluation and shall fully
participate and comply with the evaluation as directed by MPRP and its
agents;

(c) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
his release/consent;

(d) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental heaith
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent
shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions constitutes a violation of this Consent Order;

(f) the evaluation shall not be performed by Dr. B, Dr. H, or Dr. G,? who
have already performed evaluations of the Respondent; and

(3) After the evaluation by MPRP and/or its agents is complete, the evaluation shall
be reviewed by Panel B. The parties may be required to appear before Panel B to
discuss whether the Respondent is fit to practice medicine and, if so, if probationary
conditions are necessary. If Panel B determines that it is safe for the Respondent to

? The parties know who these three individuals are. The individuals involved in the
evaluation ordered under this Consent Order, however, may, but are not required to, review
the evaluations performed by these three individuals.
