Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Bernard A. Cohen, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I acknowledge that the Board issued an Order on Petition to Terminate Suspension
on April 19, 2023 that continued the suspension of my medical license.

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland because I have retired from the practice of medicine.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender in lieu of continuing to comply with the
suspension of my license.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes
a disciplinary action by Panel B.

| affirm that I have already provided access to and copies of patient medical records
to my patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also
agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of
Controlled Substances Administration. :

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. | understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this
Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision
knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

Berriard A. Cohen, M.D.
