deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but not limited

to, the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the Panel B determines that it is not

safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall

be continued through an order of Panel B under the terms Panel B deems

appropriate[.]

MPRP sent Dr. Cohen for a further evaluation on October 19, 2022 (the “October 2022
Evaluation"). The evaluator diagnosed Dr. Cohen with a similar medical condition that was
deemed to preclude his ability practice by the previous evaluators, but concluded that he believed
Dr. Cohen could still practice as a pediatric dermatologist safely. On November 11, 2022, the
medical director of MPRP reviewed Dr. Cohen’s lengthy medical history, which included the
March 2022 Evaluation, the October 2022 Evaluation, and two other evaluations of clinical
neuroscientists, and opined that Dr. Cohen cannot practice medicine safely.

On January 22, 2023, Dr. Cohen submitted a petition to terminate his suspension. On
February 21, 2023, the Administrative Prosecutor, on behalf of the State, submitted a response.
On March 22, 2023, Panel B met with Dr. Cohen, his counsel, and the Administrative Prosecutor
to discuss Dr. Cohen’s petition to terminate his suspension.

CONSIDERATION OF PETITION

Dr. Cohen submitted a petition to terminate his suspension, which included a letter from
the neurologist who evaluated him at the Cognitive Clinic at Penn Medicine and a letter explaining
his conduct that prompted the report to the Board by the Hospital where he was employed.

The State filed a response recommending that the Panel deny Dr. Cohen’s petition and not
lift the suspension of his license. The State urged the Board to follow the advice of the medical
director of MPRP and find that Dr. Cohen is not safe to resume the practice of medicine.

The Panel has reviewed and considered the four evaluations (two neuropsychological

evaluations and two neurological evaluations) Dr. Cohen underwent between March of 2020 and
