 

controlled dangerous substances for legitimate medical purposes and in the usual
scope of professional practice.

From as late as on or about June 2015 through on or about April 2017, the
Defendant worked at both [Office A] and [Office B]. Both [Office A] and [Office
B] operated as, in part, a “Pill Mill.” A Pill Mill is a physician’s office, clinic, or
health care facility that routinely engages in the practice of prescribing and
dispensing controlled substances, such as oxycodone and other pain medication,
outside the scope of professional practice, and without a legitimate medical
purpose.

Ample evidence existed, which the Defendant either knew about or intentionally
ignored, that both [Office A] and [Office B] were operating as Pill Mills. For
example: patients were paying hundreds of dollars in cash to receive prescriptions
for controlled dangerous substances; patients were receiving prescriptions for
controlled dangerous substances even after urinalysis results in the patient files
documented the presence of a substance abuse disorder and/or diversion; and
during one extended period of time while Dr. Shaw-Taylor was absent from
[Office A] and/or [Office B], patients continued to receive prescriptions for
controlled dangerous substances that were signed by Dr. Shaw-Taylor but
completed by other individuals who were not qualified to prescribe controlled
dangerous substances,

At all times relevant to the Indictment, Medicaid was a State health plan that
would pay qualifying, licensed, health care providers—such as the Defendant—
for certain approved costs associated with the care of beneficiaries. In order to
become a Medicaid provider, a licensed, health care provider must complete and
submit an application and enter into an agreement with the Maryland Department
of Health (formerly known as the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene)
(hereinafter, “MDH”), agreeing to be responsible for knowing and to comply with
the standards of practice set forth in federal and state laws, regulations, and other

_ policies. A licensed, health care provider must further recognize that the
submission of a false claim would create the potential for criminal prosecution
and expulsion from the Medicaid program.

At all times relevant to the indictment, Defendant was an approved Medicaid
provider such that Medicaid would have unwittingly paid for the costs of interalia
qualifying prescriptions for controlled dangerous substances written by Defendant
and given to a Medicaid beneficiary at one of these Pill Mills. Ample evidence
also existed to establish that’Defendant knew that patients receiving prescriptions
for controlled dangerous substances were beneficiaries of Medicaid as a State
health plan. For example: patient files contained forms, completed by patients,
that identified Medicaid as the “insurance coverage”; patient files contained
photocopies of various identification cards denoting affiliation with the Medicaid
program; and patient files contained reference to certain Medicaid billing codes.
