Additionally, throughout the time period alleged in the Indictment, the Defendant

prescribed certain controlled dangerous substances outside the scope of

professional practice and without a legitimate medical purpose during this period.
On or about June 1, 2016, for example, the Defendant wrote a prescription to EF.
for 120 pills of Alprazolam (benzodiazepine), 2 mg (2 refills), a Schedule IV
controlled dangerous substance; and 180 pills of tramadol, 50 mg, a Schedule IV
controlled dangerous substance, The defendant did so despite evidence in the
patient’s file of both drug diversion and a substance abuse disorder, and knowing
the significant risk that a patient taking benzodiazepine and oxycodone could
suffer respiratory failure. E.F. was a Medicaid beneficiary.

 

Other Instances of Medicaid Fraud

 

A Medicaid provider that seeks reimbursement from Medicaid for services must
have submitted a claim for reimbursement. Medicaid claims were submitted or
otherwise subject to oversight by MDH with payment made by the Comptroller of
Maryland, headquartered in Anne Arundel County, In order. to receive payment,
providers must have complied with applicable federal and state law, regulations,
and other policies, Medicaid would not have paid for services that were not
medically necessary, that were provided in violation of federal or state law, or that
were otherwise fraudulent.

During the times relevant to the Indictment, Defendant knowingly and willfully
caused to be submitted claims to Medicaid for office visit reimbursements that he
knew to be fraudulent. For example, between on or about December 29, 2015 and
January 16, 2016, Defendant traveled to Africa. Nonetheless, the Defendant
knowingly and willfully submitted 169 Medicaid claims for office visits that were
purportedly with Defendant during that period. Medicaid paid approximately
$18,232 for office visits for 138 beneficiaries based on those fraudulent
submissions and approximately $72,000 for prescriptions purportedly written by
Defendant during on or about that period. As another example, between on or
about January 11, 2017 and on or about January 12, 2017, Defendant was an
inpatient undergoing back surgery and was not working during this time period.
Nonetheless, the Defendant knowingly and willfully caused to be submitted 40
Medicaid claims for office visits that were purportedly with Defendant Shaw-
Taylor during that period. Medicaid paid approximately $4,421 for office visits
based on those fraudulent submissions and $23,424 for prescriptions purportedly
written by Defendant on or about that period,

The Defendant further agrees that these facts are sufficient to prove each of the
elements of conviction set forth above beyond a reasonable doubt.

4, On March 2, 2018, Dr. Shaw-Taylor entered a plea of guilty to one count of Conspiracy
to Commit Medicaid Fraud and one count of Medicaid Fraud.
