to the complaint.

23. Respondent failed to respond to Patient 11’s complaint.
D. Anonymous Complaint

24. On November 16, 2016, the Board received by facsimile, a four page
“typewritten” complaint, signed by “Concerned Citizens.” The complaint, specifically
addressed to the Board’s investigator for this case, described the issues of Respondent
not physically seeing his patients, prewriting prescriptions which he requires his staff to
hand out, maintaining about 50 to 60 patients a day, prescribing high amounts of
oxycodone, and seeing patients as late as 3:00 a.m. The complainants stated that
Respondent had patients who pay $400 to $450 a visit, in cash. The complainants
provided a list of approximately 162 patients about whom they had concerns.“
E. Complaint from _a Pharmacist

25. On February 9, 2017, the Board received by facsimile, a complaint from a
licensed pharmacist (“Pharmacist A”), regarding Respondent's unavailability to confirm
the legitimacy of a prescription. According to Pharmacist A:

On 6 feb (sic) 17, the patient presented two prescriptions written by doctor

(sic) Shaw-Taylor for Percocet and fentanyl. After searching the Crisp

portal and finding that the patient paid cash for hydrocodone, | wanted to

verify the new Prescriptions. | called office phone number about ten times

and the recording stated that the office was open and to leave a message.

The voice mail was full. | also tried the paging number on the voicemail

and the physicians cell #, which the patient had and was unable to leave

any messages. However, the patient went outside and claimed that she
spoke directly with the physician.

The complainants are clearly knowledgeable about Respondent's office practice since they were able to
provide names of multiple patients of Respondent. Three of the patients on the list are on the list of
patients who records were reviewed by the peer reviewers. Moreover, many of the concerns are
substantiated by reports of other witnesses.

*® The name of the pharmacist is not provided in the Order of Summary Suspension. Respondent has
been provided with the identity of the pharmacist.

fc)
