Surgery, followed by a three year residency in Urology.

3. Respondent was initially board-certified in Urology by the American Board
of Urology in 1987. Respondent was re-certified in 1997 but allowed his re-certification
to expire in 2007. Respondent has not sought board re-certification in Urology.
Respondent is not, and has not been, board-certified by the American Board of Medical
Specialties in any other medical specialty.’

4. Since 1981, Respondent has practiced medicine, specializing in urology.
Respondent has had various office locations in the greater Baltimore area, and has held
hospital privileges at various hospitals in the greater Baltimore area.

5. Since approximately 1986, Respondent has served as the medical director
for approximately five different methadone/drug abuse programs in Baltimore City.

6. Since 2001 or 2002, Respondent has been continuously certified by the
Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) to provided Office-Based Buprenorphine
Opioid Treatment (“OBOT”).®

7. On July 28, 2015, Respondent's hospital privileges at Hospital A were
summarily suspended based on complications following two urological surgical
procedures. Since July 2015, Respondent has not held any hospital privileges.

8. Since approximately August 2015, Respondent's “pain management”
practice has increased, requiring expansion into an adjacent office; and, Respondent
7 Respondent informed the Board that he received American Society of Addiction Medicine certification in
Addiction Medicine in February 2002 and American Board of Addiction Medicine certification in May 2009;
however, neither of these certifications is active at this time.

° Office Based Opioid Agonist Treatment (“OBOT”) refers to a model of opioid agonist treatment that seek
to integrate the treatment of opioid addiction into the general medical and psychiatric care of the patient.
The foundation of OBOT is the conceptualization of opioid addiction as a chronic medical condition with
similarity to many other chronic conditions. An important feature of OBOT is that it allows primary care

physicians to provide addiction treatment services in their usual clinical settings, thus expanding the
availability of care.

5
