his care and treatment of Patient 10, for reasons including but not limited to that he:

a. Prescribes oxycodone simultaneously with Suboxone, which exacerbates
Patient 10’s addiction issue;

b. Fails to impose any consequence over several years of treatment, such a
closer follow-ups or discharge, for inconsistent urine drug screens, which
included both negative screens for buprenorphine and low levels of a
positive for buprenorphine, positive THC, benzodiazepine, opiates,
alcohol, and cocaine; and

Cc. Fails to refer Patient 10 to an in-patient facility where he can be strictly

monitored and receive intensive therapy for any underlying psychological
conditions including his bipolar disorder.

IV. Summary of Individual Patients
107. Respondent's failure to meet standards for quality pain medicine in regard
to his care and treatment of nine out of ten patients, in part, is the basis for Panel B’s
finding that the public health, safety, and welfare imperatively requires emergency
action.
V. Additional Investigation of Overprescribing and Unprofessional Conduct
108. Previously, on April 21, 2016, Board staff interviewed an individual who
had been Respondent's office manager (“Office Manager A”) at the Falls Road office
from February 22, 2016 through April 14, 2016. Office Manager A stated under oath:
a. She has witnessed Respondent yelling at patients, “every day, all day;”
b. If the other doctor (Physician A) in the practice discharged a patient
because the patient did not have prescribed suboxone in the urine, the
patient would sit in the office all day to see Respondent because he “gives

them their medicine like nothing happened;”

Cc. Respondent recently permitted a patient who had “pulled a knife” on the
nurse practitioner, to return to the office;

d. Respondent “pre-writes” prescriptions, completely filling in the

%° On April 20, 2016, Office Manager A approached a member of the Board’s investigative staff on the
Board’s parking lot and stated she wanted to speak with the staff person about Respondent.

26
