were summarily suspended in 2015, is now practicing what he describes as “pain
management.” Pain medicine is a medical sub-specialty for which Respondent has no
training, and an area of medicine in which opioids may be prescribed, but which
Respondent widely prescribes, and which can be abused and diverted for non-medical
purposes. Respondent has coupled his “pain management” practice, with his addiction
medicine practice that involves a patient population who has a demonstrated issue with
opioid drug habituation/addiction and possible prescription drug abuse and/or diversion
of opioids.

According to independent expert review by two physicians who are board-
certified in anesthesiology and pain medicine, Respondent does not follow standards
for practicing pain management and is professionally incompetent in regard to his pain
management practices, especially his prescribing of opioids in that Respondent:

1. Prescribes controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) out of his scope of
practice and experience. Respondent claims he has gained experience of
pain management “by extension of addiction medicine”; however, only
through a brief three hour training course, once a year, which he did not
attend this past year;

2. Prescribes excessively high doses of CDS, particularly opioids, without
justification, creating a cycle of rapid tolerance and dependence;

3. Prescribes benzodiazepines? with opioids which places patients at an
increased risk for respiratory depression;

"Benzodiazepines are a class of medications which have sedative, hypnotic (sleep-inducing),
anxiolytic (anti-anxiety), anticonvulsant, and muscle relaxant properties. High doses of shorter-acting
benzodiazepines may also cause anterograde amnesia and dissociation. Benzodiazepines are used in
treating anxiety, insomnia, agitation, seizures, muscle spasms, alcohol withdrawaland as a_ pre-
medication for medical or dental procedures.

° Respiratory depression means unusually slow or shallow breathing, which can result in too much carbon
dioxide and not enough oxygen in the blood. The condition can be life-threatening. The most common
cause of respiratory depression is a drug overdose. Alcohol, barbiturates, opiates, GHB and sedatives,
especially when used in combinations or large amounts, can result in respiratory depression. Usually, the
person’s heartbeat and blood pressure will also slow down to dangerous levels.

2
