November 2013 which showed “lumbar disc herniation” and a computer print-out from a
pharmacy which showed he had been prescribed oxycodone 30 mg and other
medications since October 2013. Respondent requested, but did not receive records of
prior care. Respondent assessed “Sciatic: lumbar radiculopathy secondary to lumbar
disc herniation, hypertension, hypothyroidism, hyperlipidemia, GERD, hypogonadism,
and phantom left 5" digit pain.” Respondent prescribed oxycodone 30 mg qid” #120, as
well as medications for blood pressure, acid reflux, and thyroid. Respondent saw
Patient 1 for regular 4 week follow-ups and referred Patient 1 for an orthopedic consult.

51. Following lumbar decompression surgery in March 2015, Patient 1
returned to Respondent with significant post-operative pain. Although Patient 1’s
toxicology screen in July 2015 was positive for heroin and cocaine, on September 21,
2015 and March 3, 2016, Respondent prescribed Neurontin’ 600 mg tid, oxycodone 30
mg tid, and MS Contin® 30 mg bid.” Respondent also prescribed medications for blood
pressure, acid reflux, and thyroid. Respondent did not obtain any further toxicology
screens.

52. Respondent fails to meet standards for quality pain medicine in regard to
his care and treatment of Patient 1 for reasons including but not limited to that he:

a. Fails to follow-up and obtain records of prior treatment;

b. Prescribes medications for pain which is outside the scope of his training

and experience;

*® Qid is a Latin abbreviation for the phrase “four times a day.” Also used in the document are the
following abbreviations: bid, which means “twice a day;” tid, which means “three times a day,” qd, which
means “daily” and prn, which means “as needed.”

* Neurotin is a brand name of gabapentin, an anti-epileptic medication, used to treat seizures and some
types of pain.

7. MS Contin is the brand name for an extended release formulation of morphine.

6 Another health care provider in Respondent's office saw Patient 1, monthly, from October 19, 2015 to
February 3, 2016.

15
