“negative” for buprenorphine; and two of the patients were “positive” for
benzodiazepines and morphine, although Respondent had not prescribed
either. Respondent had prescribed Hydromorphone for one of the
patients, in addition to suboxone.

Cc. Copies of three prescriptions, one of which was for a benzodiazepine,
written on May 5, 2015, after the date of the laboratory reports, for the
patient who was positive for benzodiazepines, although Respondent had
not previously prescribed benzodiazepines for this patient.

d. Four “Retrospective Drug Utilization Review Program” reports. One report
shows that Respondent prescribed oxycodone” 15 mg, 90 tablets and
oxycodone 30 mg, 120 tablets on the same day, which the patient filled at
two different pharmacies; another report showed “high daily dose of
opioids (exceeding 200 mg morphine equivalent dose/day), and another
patient where “use of 4 or more pharmacies may indicate abuse potential
or inappropriate use of opioids.”

e. A handwritten list of names of approximately 28 individuals.

Cc. Patient Complaint Regarding Unprofessional Conduct — Case No. 2016-
0281 B

20. On October 27, 2016, the Board received a complaint from a patient of
Respondent (“Patient 11”)."* In the complaint, Patient 11 stated in pertinent part:

| have been a patient with Dr. Kofi Shaw Taylor for approximately one year.

Since that time | have only seen him two times and my appointments were 12:30

pm and 2:30 p.m. On both occasions | had not been seen until 1:00 a.m. in the

morning and the second occasion was 11:30 p.m.

21. On November 3, 2016, Board staff obtained Patient 11’s medical record
during an unannounced visit to Respondent's Falls Road office.

22. On November 7, 2016, the Board notified Respondent about Patient 11’s

complaint that alleges unprofessional conduct and requested that Respondent respond

 

** Suboxone is a combination of buprenorphine, an opioid medication, and naloxone, which blocks the
effects of opioid medication, including pain relief or feelings of well-being that can lead to opioid abuse.

® Oxycodone is an opioid pain medication. sometimes called a narcotic, which is used to treat moderate
to severe pain.

* Patient names are confidential and are not used in the charging document. Respondent has been
provided with a separate “Confidential Identification List” with the names of each of the patients
referenced in the Order of Summary Suspension.

8
