 

 

Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: John Anthony Vitarello, Jr., M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges and because |
wish to retire from the practice of medicine.

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I] acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.

T understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

1 understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, | also
understand that in the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that | will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
Thave no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any
application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make elear that | have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully, I acknowledge that { understand and comprehend the language, meaning

and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.
