Facts Regarding the Respondent’ s Maryland License Aoplication
18. On September 12, 2018, the Respondent completed and submitted his application
. for renewal of his Maryland medical license (Application) and submitted it to the Board.
(Jt. Ex. n,

16. On the Application, the Respondent answered “No” to all character and fitness
questions, which are listed individually under Question 5, including Question Sc, Question 5c

reads as follows: -

Has any licensing or disciplinary board in any jurisdiction (including Maryland), a.
comparable body in the armed services or the Veterans Administration, filed any
complaints or charges against you or investigated you for any reason? (Jt. Ex. 7). |
17. Under section 19a, in the section entitled Certification and-Authorization of
License Application, the Respondent certified as follows:
I certify that I have personally reviewed all responses to the items in this
application and that the information I have given is true and correct to the best of
my knowledge and any false information provided as to my application may be
". cause for the denial of my application. (It. Ex. 7).
18 The Respondent further certified, in section 19c, that:
I shall inform the Board, by electronic or first-class mail, within 30 days of: (a)
"action that would be grounds for disciplinary action under Md. Code Ann. Health
Occ. § 14-404 that occurred at any lime during the application period; (b) change ©
in any answer that was originally given in this application. (Jt. Ex. 7).
19. On April 10, 2019, the Federation of Siate Medical Boards? sent a disciplinary
alert to the Board advising of the Virginia Board’s Order’ and the suspension. :
20, The Board subsequently reviewed the Respondent’s answers on his September 12,

2018 license renewal application and determined that he had failed to disclose the Virginia

investigation and complaint against him.

3 The Federation of State Medical Hoards is a coalition of state medical boards that provides various services to the
various state medical boards. One of the services provided is notification of any. disciplinary, action taken against a
physician to those states in which the physician is licensed, .

10,
