discipline after California imposed discipline after the respondent failed to respond to a motion
for entry of default).

Next, Dr. Hill argues that he should not be subject to reciprocal discipline here, when he
did not receive actual notice and therefore was never afforded the opportunity to defend himself
in the Virginia action. Dr. Hill relies upon the Maryland Rules pertaining to Attorney Grievance
cases which allow challenges to reciprocal discipline in exceptional circumstances.2. Maryland
Rule 19-737(e).. Pursuant to Maryland Rule 19-737(e), to avoid reciprocal discipline, the
attorney or Bar Counsel must prove by clear and convincing evidence that “the procedure was so
lacking in notice or opportunity to be heard as to constitute a deprivation of due process” or such
an “infirmity of proof” to give rise to a clear conviction that the Court cannot accept the
determination of misconduct.” Maryland Rule 19-737(e)(1) and (2). This rule does not pertain
to professional licensing cases outside of attorney grievance matters. The reciprocal grounds
under the Maryland Board’s statute, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21), does not contain the same
opportunity to make a collateral challenge for due process concerns. Virginia is the only venue
to challenge the sufficiency of due process provided by the Virginia Board, not Maryland.
Indeed, Dr. Hill appealed the Virginia Order in Henrico County Circuit Court, but the Virginia
Court dismissed his appeal of the Virginia Board’s Order. Panel A agrees with the State’s
argument that the Henrico County Circuit Court’s dismissal of Dr. Hill’s claims was the end of

Dr. Hill’s ability to challenge the Virginia’s Board Order.’

> Dr. Hill also cites a nearly identical provision in the District of Columbia (D.C. Bar Rule XI, § 11(c))
and cites a D.C. case where that provision was discussed but was not applied. Jn re Zdravkovich, 831
A.2d 965 (D.C. 2003).

* Dr. Hill incorrectly cites to Maryland Rule 19-773. The prior iteration was Rule 16-773 and the current
rule is Rule 19-737.

* The State also argues that Dr. Hill is precluded from challenging the reciprocal discipline because he
waived the issue when he stipulated at the OAH hearing that the Virginia Board action imposed a
violation that would be a violation in Maryland. The Panel declines to find a waiver here. Dr. Hill was

6
