keeping, indications for colonoscopies, recommendations for follow-up after colonoscopies, and
cardiac evaluations. In addition, the Respondent also ‘suggests that he submit to the supervision
of another board-certified surgeon who would have to grant permission for the Respondent to.
conduct colonoscopies and who.would review each of the Respondent’s colonoscopies and stress
‘echocardio grams, In an effort to be proactive, the Respondent testified that he has already
arranged for another surgeon to perform the review of the colonostopies and stress
echocardiograms he performs. In addition, the Respondent is willing to have another board-
certified surgeon review his overall practice.

In support of his argument that his license be spared, the Respondent points to the fact
that he has completed a substantial amount of continuing medical education and belongs to
several different medical societies in his effort to provide the best care possible to. his patients.
He also urges me to consider the fact that there have been no malpractice claims against him in
the past ten years and he has caused no actual harm to any of his patients in that timeframe.

The State concedes that the Respondent has an “admirable” story of the obstacles he
overcame to obtain his medical degree and in his work with underserved populations. However,
the State argues that the Board has a duty to ensure its licensees maintain proper standards of
care and a suspension in this case is necessary to correct the deficiencies in the Respondent’s
practice detected by. the Virginia Board. The State maintains that if licensees are allowed to fall
below the standard of care, it would undermine the public’s confidence in the Board as a policing

Organization as well as confidence in the profession itself. The State also points to the
Respondent’s disciplinary history as justification for imposing a suspension in this case.

The Respondent was found to have significant deficiencies in his practice in both .

Maryland and Virginia in 2003 and 2009, respectively. In 2003, the Board reprimanded the

Respondent and placed him under strict supervision for a period of three ye ars due to these

18
