Services or will offer-services at a reduced rate simply to ensure that his patients have access to
medical care. He is concerned with what will happen to those patients if he is not available to
treat tiem. Further, the Respondent, who himself suffered from COVID-19 in Apiil, has used

" the knowledge he gained during his illness to assist his patients who get the virus. In addition, he

‘event of a spike in COVID-19 cases there.
The Respondent argues that it is “paramount” that he retain his license so that he may

continue serving his patients, some of whom have nowhere else to turn for medical care. He also

pointed out that there are higher rates of heart attacks and colon cancer among the populations he
serves, which makes it even more vital that he be available to provide medical services to them.

.The Respondent’s attomey characterized as “almost saintly” the Respondent's
willingness to treat those who are poor, sometimes undocumented, and cannot find medical care
elsewhere and then charge either a reduced rate or provide services without charge, The
Respondent stressed bis belief that no one would be protected were his license to be suspended
and, in fact, if the Board were to suspend his license, it would take away from the “reservoir of
relief available to people” who are often treated as “pariahs” by the rest of society

In lieu of suspending his medical license, the Respondent urges that the Board instead
impose restrictions on his license that would allow him to continue to serve his patients under
supervision. The Respondent’s proposal is multi-pronged. First, he proposes that he address an
ethics lecture to medical residents at Howard University to emphasize to them the importance of
honestly and correctly ansWering questions on their professional applications, using his personal
expetience as an example of why such candor and forthrightness is so critical. He also proposes

that the Board require him to take continuing 1 medical education classes on ethics, medical record

17.
