(holding that D.C. has adopted a rigid standard for reciprocal bar discipline cases and noting that
“reciprocal discipline proceedings are not a forum to reargue the foreign discipline” and the
respondent “is not entitled to relitigate or collaterally attack the findings or judgment of the
Maryland Court of Appeals.”)

Dr. Hill argues before the Panel that his case is different from the above-cited cases in
Maryland and in other States because he never participated in the proceedings that gave rise to
the reciprocal discipline, never received actual notice, and was never afforded the opportunity to
defend himself in the underlying Virginia case.

First, Dr. Hill notes that in each cited case by the State and ALJ, the regulated
professional either agreed to the underlying discipline in a consent order or participated in a
hearing. He argues that none of the cases cited by the State and ALJ were default judgments in
the original state of discipline, like his.' Dr. Hill’s argument that States do not impose reciprocal
discipline for default judgments is incorrect. See In re Disciplinary Action against Wolff, 810
N.W.2d 312, 316-17 (Minn. 2012) (disbarring an attorney in Minnesota in a reciprocal action
arising from a default order in Arizona); n re Christenson, 940 A.2d 84, 84 n.1 (D.C. 2007)
(imposing reciprocal discipline based on a California default judgment when the respondent
failed to respond to the notice of disciplinary charges and failed to file a motion to set aside the

default judgment); Jn re Feigenbaum, 951 A.2d 754, 756 (D.C. 2008) (imposing reciprocal

' Confusingly, Dr. Hill cites two Massachusetts cases for this proposition that do not concern default
judgments. Ramirez v. Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine, 806 N.E.2d 410 (Mass. 2004);
Annuservice v. Massachusetts Board of Registration in Dentistry, 889 N.E.2d 953 (Mass 2008). Both
Massachusetts cases concern whether a state may consider consent orders as disciplinary actions for
purposes of reciprocal action and may not collaterally attack such consent orders. Ramirez, 806 N.E.2d at
413-14; Annuservice, 889 N.E.2d at 961. Both cases find that such consent orders should be upheld as
valid. {d. It appears that Dr. Hill cites these cases because they were not claiming an unfair process, as
Dr. Hill does. However, neither case makes any holding regarding default judgments, nor does either
case address default judgments in dicta. The cases merely clarify that consent orders are distinguishable
from cases where a hearing was held. These cases do not support Dr. Hill’s contentions.

5
