deficiencies. During this time, he was required to take a medical records course, take a

: gastrointestinal course on the proper management of reflux disease, have a board-certified
general surgeon sapervise his practice, have a board-certified surgeon review his ‘next four
Japaroscopic fundoplication repair surgeries, and obtain a consulting opinion from a
gastroenterologist at all times before performing laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication surgery. In
2009, the Virginia Board found further deficiencies in the Respondent’s medical record keeping

. and, in addition to issuing a reprimand, required him to take a twenty-hour continuing medical
_ education course on medical record keeping, to review and revise his office-based anesthesia
“policy, and to review and certify that he would comply with the laws governing the practice of
medicine-in Virginia (Title 54.1, Chapter 29-of the Virginia Code), the Regulations (18 Va.
Admin, Code § 85-20-10 et seq.); and the-Guidelines on Opioid Prescribing (the Virginia
Board’s Guidance Document 85-24). In the view of the State, this history, and the further
deficiencies detected by the Virginia Board in this most recent case, render the imposition of a
suspension appropriate.
T agree’ with the State. The Respondent is clearly a dedicated physician who was sincere
in his testimony about his desire to continue to attend to his patients, some of whom could —

- potentially have to go without medical care if he could not treat them. However, t am not
persuaded that taking additional courses and submitting to the supervision of other physicians is
sufficient to address the problems. Arguably, if it were, the Respondent would have corrected
his deficiencies in 2003 after the imposition of the first disciplinary, action, and they would not

. have recurred, However, the Respondent has taken not one but two courses in medical record
keeping and still had further deficiencies in that area. The Respondent received two reprimands,

* submitted to being supervised by other board-certified surgeons in the past for a period of three

19
