the discipline in Virginia would be grounds for disciplining the Respondent in Maryland under
section 14-404(a), (3)(4i), (19), (22), and/or (33) of the Act:

(a) Jn general, — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the
disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, .
or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(Gi) Is guilty of .. . [u]nprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(19) Grossly overutilizes health care services;
(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer .

review for the eens of-quality medical and surgical care performed in an .

outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or any other location | in this
State; [and/or]

(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful i investigation conducted by the Board 0 or
a disciplinary panel. .

Id. § 14- -#04(@)(1), (3) (ii), (19), 02), (33).

_ When not otherwise provided by statute or regulation, the standard of proof in a contested .
case hearing before the OAH is a preponderance of the evidence, and the burden of proof rests
on the party. making an assertion or a-claim. Md. Code Ann., Stale Gov't § 10-217 (2014);
COMAR 28.02.01.21K. The State, which is prosecuting the charges for the Board, has the
' _ burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence. .

. Analysis

. At the outset of the hearing on the merits, the Respondent indicated that he was :
conceding to the allegations outlined in the State’s Charges Under the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (Charges). Accordingly, as the Respondent is no longer challenging the substance
of the Charges, the allegations contained in the Charges are accepted as true. Based upon the
parties’ stipulations, [ therefore find that with regard to the false representations on his 2018
Maryland medical license renewal, the Respondent fraudulently or deceptively-attempted to
obtain a license, was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, and willfully

2.
