evaluated or diagnosed; (2) failing to adequately document patient histories and physical
examinations, patient care plans, and progress notes, to the extent that another physician would
find it difficult to continue patient care; and (3) failing to use specialty consultations
appropriately. In a Consent Order, dated April 4, 1995, the Board placed Dr. Baltatzis on
probation for three years and required him to successfully complete Board-approved courses in
prescribing Controlled Dangerous Substances (“CDS”) and medical record-keeping. The Board
also required an annual review of his practice to be conducted by a peer review committee during
the probation.

In June 1995, Dr, Baltatzis began an individualized medical record-keeping tutorial. The
instructor noted 14 areas of concern that required improvement. Upon follow up review, the
instructor found that several of Dr, Baltatzis’s medical records still contained the same type of
deficiencies identified in the initial review. In August 1996, the instructor notified the Board that
Dr. Baltatzis had declined further review of, and instruction in, his medical record keeping
practices. In September 1995, Dr, Baltatzis also completed an intensive controlled substance
management course. In 1997, Dr. Baltatzis’s practice was subject to a peer review, and the peer
reviewers agreed that he failed to meet the standard of care, in part based on his tendency to
prescribe multiple benzodiazepines concurrently with opioids and muscle relaxants with little
attention to the potential addictive toxicity of the drugs. Although the Board terminated Dr.
Baltatzis’s probation in 1998, the Board remained concerned about his patient care.

Corrective Action Agreement, May 1998: Courses and Peer Reviews 2001-2003

As a result of these concerns, the Board and Dr. Baltatzis agreed to a plan of corrective

action and entered into a formal Corrective Action Agreement in May 1998. Dr. Baltatzis agreed

to successfully complete a Board-approved polypharmacy course within 6 months, and a medical
