based on the evidence - the Board does. (T. 303.) His argument to the contrary at this point is
self-contradictory. In any event, as the ALJ found, the relevant question was the undisputed fact
of the physician’s employment by Dr. Baltatzis to treat patients at the practice in June 2017. That
fact supported a finding that Dr. Baltatzis’s private practice was still open in June 2017 due to his
failure to permanently close the practice as required in May 2017, when he reached the age of
66.' The panel agrees. By hiring the physician to see patients throughout most of June 2017, ata
practice that Dr. Baltatzis had agreed to close in May 2017, Dr. Baltatzis violated the 2015
Consent Order. Panel B rejects this exception.

Second, Dr. Baltatzis contends that the ALJ’s findings omit any reference to witness
testimony that his staff handed out referrals directing his patients to other primary care
physicians in May and that he continued to employ two staff members from June through August
2017 so they could refer patients and transmit patient records. This contention does not provide
support for Dr. Baltatzis.2 There was no dispute that Dr. Baltatzis retained staff members to
accomplish patient referrals and records transmission tasks while the practice remained open
after May 31, 2017, despite the 2015 Consent Order’s requirement that he permanently close his
practice. As the evidence showed, Dr. Baltatzis’s staff continued those tasks for months after the
requisite closure date of his practice because he did not timely initiate the crucial responsibilities
of notifying and transitioning patients and transmitting records. Dr. Baltatzis acknowledged on
cross examination that closing a practice takes some time, that patients have to be notified, that a

lot of things have to be done, and that the Consent Order gave him 18 months to close his

 

' The ALJ noted that a strict reading of the Consent Order, as written, held that Dr. Baltatzis’s practice should have
been permanently closed when he reached the age of 66 on May 10, 2017. In the ALJ’s view, by treating the Order
as though it required closure of the practice by May 31, 2017, the State’s generous reading of the Order was even
more favorable to Dr. Baltatzis, because it gave him an additional twenty-one days to permanently close his practice,
The panel will not modify the State’s reading of the 2015 Consent Order.

2 Dr, Baltatzis does not cite to any specific testimony or witnesses in support of his contention.

9
