wife, Patient B, on that same date, He examined Patient E on August 17, 2017 and wrote
prescriptions for Patient E on that same date. Even if I assume for the sake of argument that
merely :signing medical authorization forms for Patients C and D somehow does not constitute
the “practice of medicine” within the meaning of the Act, the Respondent cannot successfully
argue he did: not practice medicine at any time after May 31, 2017. He did, in his interactions
with Patients A and E, and in writing prescriptions for Patients A, B and E.

The Respondent’s practice was open after May 31, 2017 and he engaged in practicing
medicine, at his medical office, after May 31,2017. Furthermore, even if Patients C and D “just”
got medical authorization forms signed on August 16 and 17, 2017, they were able to do so
precisely because the Respondent’s medical practice was open on those dates. Even if I give the
Respondent the benefit of the doubt and accept as tue his acknowledgment that the earliest point
at which his staff stopped scheduling patients was on June 29, 2017 (after Dr. a quit on June
28, 2017), that still represents almost an entire month the practice was open after May 31, 2017."

A significant amount of time was spent at the hearing around the issue of prescriptions .
written in June and July 2017 and bearing the Respondent’s signature. (See State Ex. 34.) The
Respondent maintained he had gotten into the practice, over the years, of post-dating prescriptions
for his patients to get filled during a time when he was out of the state or country, because he
regularly visited Greece for approximately four to six weeks every summer. The State argued it
was not appropriate for the Respondent to write post-dated prescriptions, particularly for CDS,
and it cited to federal regulations in support of its position. What is most persuasive to me,
however, is the simple fact that the reason patients were able to obtain their prescriptions during

the time the Respondent was in Greece was because his medical practice was still open. i

 

7 As noted, this is giving the Respondent the benefit of the doubt that no patients were seen after June 29, 2017. The
evidence demonstrates patients were scheduled in August 2017.

14
