 

who worked for the Respondent until Ms. a over the office on or around August
23, 2017, testified without contradiction that she called prescriptions into pharmacies on behalf of
patients during June, July, and August 2017. She was able to do this precisely because the
Respondent’s practice was not closed after May 31, 2017.

I] am sympathetic, to a point, to how difficult the idea of permanently closing his practice
likely was for the Respondent. It was clear from his testimony, as well as that of | |
Dr. | how much care and regard the Respondent had for his patients and they
for him, Additionally, being a practicing physician is no doubt a significant part of the
Respondent’s identity; he has been a licensed physician in Maryland for approximately thirty-five
years, | have no trouble understanding how being required to permanently close his practice
would be personally and professionally daunting to the Respondent. It is, however, what he was
required to do under the Consent Order. I do not find that he made a good faith effort to close the
practice by the deadline specified in the Consent Order. On the contrary, the evidence clearly
demonstrates he extended, on his own volition, the period the practice was open. He did not hire
Dr. i June 8, 2017. He wrote prescriptions for patients after May 31,2017. ‘He
examined patients and wrote prescriptions for them in August 2017. He did not finalize the sale of
the practice to Ms. ma September 26, 2017.. The Respondent did not conform his
conduct to the terms he agreed to in the Consent Order. Failing to comply with the directives of
the entity which oversees one’s licensure is unprofessional conduct in the practice of the
profession. | find by a preponderance of the evidence that the Respondent failed to permanently
close his medical practice by May 31, 2017. In failing to do so, the Respondent violated the
terms of the Consent Order, By violating the Consent Order, the Respondent violated Section

14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Act.

15
