until May 31, 2017 to permanently close the practice.° According to the State, there is no good
explanation for the Respondent failing to close his practice by May 31, 201 7° The State further
argued the Respondent did not permanently close his practice until September 26, 2017, when
the contract for sale with [RRR was finalized. The State maintained the Respondent .
waited until “the last minute” to try to sell his practice. He did not start talking to anyone else
about possibly buying the practice until mid- to late Spring 2017, and he did not notify his
patients that he was retiring until May 15, 2017, approximately sixteen days before the practice
was to close. The Respondent put himself in an untenable position by waiting so late to try to
sell the practice, but his doing so does not.excuse his failure to close the practice as of May 31,
2017. By failing to permanently close his practice as of May 31, 2017, the Respondent violated
the Consent Order. His action in violating the Consent Order, according to the State, is
unprofessional conduct.

With respect to a sanction, the State recommended a revocation of the Respondent’s
medical license. The State noted the Respondent has a prior disciplinary history with the Board,
and his prior disciplinary history should be taken into consideration in determining the
appropriate sanction. The State argued that the Board has given the Respondent multiple
opportunities to improve and remediate the problems with his practice. That the Respondent still
had difficulty conforming his behavior to professional standards was an issue for the Board at the
time it entered into the Consent Order. According to the State, this case represents another

example of the Respondent’ s inability or unwillingness to conform his behavior to the standards

 

5 The period between November 5, 2015 and May 31, 2017 is eighteen months.

61 also note that May 31, 2017 is a generous reading of the Consent Order, On its face as written, the Consent Order
requires the practice to be permanently closed when the Respondent reached sixty-six years old, which he did on
May 10, 2017. A strict reading of the Consent Order holds the practice should have been permanently closed by
May 10, 2017. By treating the Consent Order as though it required the practice to be closed by May 31, 2017, the
State adopted a reading of the Consent Order that is actually more favorable to the Respondent, because it gave him
twenty-one additional days within which the practice had to be permanently closed.

10
