treatment of their ailments. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-101(0). As such, his activities with
Patients C and D constituted the practice of medicine.4

Third, Dr. Baltatzis excepts to the ALJ’s characterization of the 2015 Consent Order as
clear and unambiguous and claims he was confused over the Consent Order’s directives because
he was permitted to retain his medical license. Dr. Baltatzis, however, was ably represented by
counsel when he negotiated the Consent Order in 2015, and he signed the Order voluntarily and
without reservation. He attested on page 13: “I fully understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms of the Consent Order.” The plain language of the Consent Order states: ...
“the Respondent shall, as he has indicated is his intention, permanently close his practice in May
2017, when he reaches the age of 66.” No provision of the Consent Order states or implies that
Dr. Baltatzis could continue to engage in the practice of medicine at his private practice because
he was permitted to retain his medical license. When asked about his understanding of the
Consent Order at the hearing, Dr. Baltatzis testified that he understood it required him to close
his practice but allowed him to maintain his license so he could treat weight loss patients at a
weight loss center. (T. 383-84.) The panel agrees with the ALJ that there is nothing unclear ot
confusing about the language of the Consent Order, and rejects Dr. Baltatzis’s claim of confusion
as implausible.

Dr, Baltatzis also takes exception to the ALJ’s recommended sanction of revocation as
unduly severe. He characterizes his violation of the 2015 Consent Order as “limited” and
“technical,” and minimizes his disregard of the disciplinary panel’s directive to permanently
close his practice. Dr. Baltatzis admits that he failed to give appropriate notice to his patients of

the closure, but blames that failure on his inability to sell the practice before May 31, 2017. The

 

4 Bven without a finding that Dr. Baltatzis engaged in the practice of medicine with Patients C and D, the
appropriate sanction would be the same given the facts and circumstances of this case. The panel’s findings with
respect to his activities with these two patients, therefore, does not alter the sanction imposed. :

11
