set for him by the Board, specifically by refusing to close his practice and by continuing to see
patients even after he was no longer permitted to do so.

The Respondent disagreed with the State’s characterization of him as someone who fails
to comply with the Board. He explained that he is an old-fashioned family doctor. He knows his
patients and their histories well, he has an excellent rapport with his patients, and his patients are
loyal to and love him. The Respondent acknowledged he has a lengthy disciplinary history. He
argued that despite this fact, he has always complied with the Board’s orders, He further noted |
the Board itself, through its prior orders, allowed the Respondent to continue practicing medicine,
as the Board’s primary issues with him centered around documentation of his medical records.
According to the Respondent, the Board never considered the Respondent to be a danger to
patients throughout all the years he was subject to monitoring by the Board. The Respondent
further explained that under the Consent Order, he was permitted to maintain his medical license,
because he was so permitted, it was his understanding that he could continue to practice medicine
— such as he did with zt but he could not continue to operate his practice at the
Parkville office.

Additionally, the Respondent explained that he wanted to keep his practice open via a
buyer who could seamlessly continue to provide care because there are not a lot of physicians
providing care for older adults in the community. He argued that he hired ms to help with
the transition and because he believed it gave him more time to find a buyer for the practice.

The Respondent maintained that while he was in Greece, he did not see, examine,
evaluate, or diagnosis patients, Although he acknowledged there are prescriptions dated for the
period he was in Greece (from July 1, 2017 through or around August 12, 2017), he argued this
was because he post-dated the prescriptions ‘0 patients could have them filled if refills were due

while he was out of town. The Respondent disputed any assertion that he provided medical care

]1
