the Panel written documentation of the office closure.” (State Ex. 31, p. 280.) There is nothing
unclear or confusing about the language of the Consent Order. The Respondent was to
permanently close his practice in May 2017. The evidence before me overwhelmingly
demonstrates the Respondent’s practice was open well after May 31, 2017.

—oee and Dr. Siifall testified about the fact that they worked for the
Respondent, at the Parkville office, during June, July, and August 2017. They were working at
the office because the office was still open after May 31,2017. am mindful that the Respondent
hired Dr. Ee to help with the transition into the Respondent’s retirement, but even the hiring of
| is a violation of the Consent Order. Dr. es an employee of the Respondent. He
was not running the practice as though it was his practice; he was working for the Respondent.
The fact of Dr. JW employment, short though his tenure was, standing alone supports a
finding that the practice was still open afier May 31, 2017. There would have béen no need for
the Respondent to hire Dr. BB. keep the practice running while the Respondent attempted to
secure a buyer, had the Respondent closed the practice on May 31, 2017. The very fact that Dr.
aes working for the Respondent in June 2017 (from June 8 through June 28, 2017)
supports a finding the practice was still open after May 31, 2017.

The Respondent seems to conflate “practicing medicine,” with “permanently closing the
practice,” such that if he can successfully argue he did not do the former, then it somehow means
he did do the latter, I do not find the argument persuasive, for a number of reasons. First and
foremost, the Consent Order’s directive is for the practice to permanently close. It does not
indicate that as long as the Respondent does not engage in conduct which is considered
practicing medicine, that restraint is the equivalent of closing his medical practice. Second, the
Respondent actually engaged in practicing medicine at his Parkville medical office after May 31,

2017. He examined Patient A on August 16, 2017, and wrote prescriptions for Patient A and his

13
