to educate an at-risk patient about the potential for a stroke, failure to follow up with another
patient about a CT scan showing a nodule on the patient’s lung, failure to treat a patient’s high
blood pressure for five months, and failure to order routine maintenance Pap and mammography
screenings, as well as requisite bloodwork for hyperthyroidism and diabetes.

Although the ALJ recommended revocation of Dr. Baltatzis’s license, the Board
exercised extraordinary leniency and gave him another opportunity for continued education and
remediation and monitoring of his practice. On March 22, 2005, the Board imposed a stayed
suspension of Dr. Baltatzis’s license and probation for five years, during which he was required
to enroll in and complete courses in diabetes, thyroid disease, hypertensive disease, vascular
disease, and a third course in medical record-keeping. In addition, his practice was subject to
another peer review.

The Board conducted a formal peer review of 10 patient medical records, focusing on Dr.
Baltatzis’s treatment of patients after March 2005. In April 2008, based on the peer review
results, the Board again charged Dr. Baltatzis with failing to meet appropriate standards for the
delivery of quality medical care, failing to keep adequate medical records, and violating the
March 2005 Final Opinion and Order.

Final Decision and Order, October 20, 2009, Course, Supervision, and Peer Review

After an evidentiary hearing on the charges at OAH, the Board again found that Dr.
Baltatzis violated the standard of quality care during the 20-month peer review period with
respect to 7 patients. In general, the violations involved his failure to properly monitor and treat
diabetes, hypertension, depression, gastroesophageal reflux disease, symptomatic prostatic
hypertrophy, cerebrovascular disease, hyperlipidemia, and his failure to document patient
referrals and specialist examinations. The Board imposed another 5-year period of probation,

with conditions that included completion of a course in the management of diabetes and related

4
