in this case, including the evidentiary record made before the ALJ, and the written and oral
exceptions by both parties, Panel B now issues this Final Decision and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B adopts the findings of fact numbered 1-28 proposed by the ALI. (The ALJ’s
Proposed Decision of October 11, 2018, is incorporated by reference into this Final Decision and
Order and is appended to this Order as Attachment A). The panel also adopts the ALJ’s
discussion and analysis on pages 8-18 of the Proposed Decision. Dr. Baltatzis does not dispute
the accuracy of the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact, including findings that he turned 66 on May
10, 2017; that his medical practice remained open in June, July, and August, 2017; that he hired
another physician in June 2017 to provide coverage for patients in the practice; that his office
staff continued to work at his medical practice and called prescriptions into pharmacies for
patients during July and August, 2017; and that he treated patients at the practice and wrote
prescriptions for them in August 2017. Nor does he dispute the ALJ’s conclusions that he failed
to permanently close his practice in May 2017, and that he violated the 2015 Consent Order. He
does take exception to certain rulings and parts of the Proposed Decision.

CONSIDERATION OF EXCEPTIONS

First, Dr. Baltatzis excepts to the ALJ’s finding that his hiring of another physician to
provide care to his patients after June 1, 2017 was a violation of the 2015 Consent Order. He
argues that Board staff did not inform him that his employment arrangement with this physician
was non-compliant with the Consent Order during their visit on June 13, 2017, and that he
believed he was compliant at that time. A determination of non-compliance with a Board order is
a duty assigned to Board disciplinary panels, however, not to Board staff conducting an
investigation or visits to a physician’s office location. As Dr. Baltatzis pointed out, through his

counsel at the hearing, Board staff gather evidence, they do not make ultimate determinations

8
