more severe than indicated by the lab results. Panel A also found that two pre-operative
examination reports completed by Dr. Baltatzis for this patient were incomplete, based on his
failure to document for the benefit of the surgeon whether the patient had cardiac or any other
medical risks. In addition, Panel A found that Dr. Baltatzis provided substandard treatment to a
third patient in her eighties with Alzheimer’s disease. He prescribed benzodiazepines, which alter
mental status, and Seroquel, an atypical anti-psychotic, a medication regimen that is
contraindicated in patients with that disease.

Under the 2015 Consent Order, Panel A imposed a reprimand, and placed Dr. Baltatzis on
probation for the entire duration of his medical licensure. More significantly, based on the
panel’s concerns about the enduring and irremediable nature of Dr. Baltatzis’s standard of care
and documentation deficiencies, and his indication to the panel that he intended to permanently
close his practice in May 2017, when he reached the age of 66, the Consent Order required Dr.
Baltatzis’s compliance and permanent closure of his practice. The Consent Order also required
him to provide the panel with written documentation of the office closure, and prohibited his
acceptance of any new patients to his practice between the date of the Order and the date he
closed his practice.

Violation of Consent Order and Subsequent Procedural History

The Board began another investigation after receiving information that Dr. Baltatzis
continued to treat patients in his private practice after May 2017. The investigation revealed that
Dr. Baltatzis continued to treat patients at his practice and to write prescriptions that included
CDS and non-CDS medications in June, July and August, 2017. On September 29, 2017,
Disciplinary Panel A summarily suspended Dr. Baltatzis’s medical license, and on October 26,

2017, charged him with failing to permanently close his practice in May 2017, in violation of the
