co-morbidities, supervision of his medical practice by a Board-approved physician for 1 year,
and a chart and/or peer review.
Consent Order, November 5, 2015: Findings and Permanent Condition

In 2013, the Board received a complaint from a former patient of Dr. Baltatzis, who
alleged that he failed to address the physical causes of her chronic pelvic pain and did not
attempt to wean her off the CDS he prescribed for her. The Board began an investigation, and
subsequently performed a peer review of his medical care and recordkeeping. On November 5,
2015, Dr. Baltatzis entered into a Consent Order with Disciplinary Panel A of the Board to
resolve charges of general practice deficiencies, as well as failure to meet appropriate standards
of care and failure to maintain adequate medical records in his treatment of three specific
patients. The practice deficiencies included Dr. Baltatzis’s failure to address chronic health
maintenance issues such as colon cancer screening, failure to address a patient’s presenting
complaint, failure to address abnormal lab results with patients or to follow-up on abnormal
results, as well as brief and incomplete patient histories, notes that were scant and difficult to
read, and two-word treatment plans.

The specific standard of care violations for each patient included Dr. Baltatzis’s failure to
develop a treatment plan to address the complaining patient’s long-standing pelvic pain other
than prescribing opioids on a regular basis from 2001 through 2013. Panel A also found that Dr.
Baltatzis violated standards of quality care based on his treatment of a second patient with a
complex medical history that included Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (“COPD”),
coronary artery disease, hypertension, kidney stones, bladder and lung cancer. When the patient’s
blood tests indicated anemia, Dr. Baltatzis failed to consider that the patient’s severe COPD

would have resulted in a markedly elevated hematocrit level and that her anemia may have been
