practice, He also conceded that he was late in doing so, and did not begin to notify patients of the
closure until mid-May 2017. (T. 408, 439, 444.) Dr. Baltatzis further testified that because the
physician he employed would be coming to work at the practice, he was not in a hurry to send
patient notices out because “we were not going to close the office.” (T. 449.) Even more
concerning, the evidence overwhelmingly showed that he not only kept his practice open and
operational, but engaged in the practice of medicine by seeing, examining, and treating Patients
A and E, and writing CDS prescriptions for Patients A, B, and E in August 2017. Patients
continued to obtain prescriptions in July and August strictly because Dr. Baltatzis’s practice was
still open, in violation of the 2015 Consent Order.

Panel B also finds that Dr. Baltatzis engaged in the practice of medicine by completing
and signing medical authorization forms for Patients C and D in August 2017. The purpose of the
form for Patient C was to enable an airline’s assessment of the patient’s fitness for plane travel
due to his need for portable oxygen. The form not only required Dr, Baltatzis’s signature as the
patient’s attending physician, but his knowledge of the patient’s medical data and detailed
medical diagnosis, the application of that knowledge to specify that the required oxygen flow
rate was 1.5 liters per minute via nasal cannula, and his consideration of the patient’s current
medical stability and prognosis for the flight. The recertification form for Patient D required Dr.
Baltatzis to assess the patient’s progress with and continuing need for a CPAP? machine to enable
continued CPAP treatment because of the patient’s diagnosis of sleep apnea. The panel rejects
Dr. Baltatzis’s contention that his actions merely involved the completion of paperwork. Rather,
his undertaking of those tasks on behalf of Patients C and D involved his knowledge of their

respective medical histories and his diagnosis of their medical ailments to ensure continued

3 CPAP stands for continuous positive airway pressure.

10
