10. By letter dated May 15, 2017 and addressed to “All My Patients and Friends,” the
Respondent advised that he was retiring from medical practice, effective June 1, 2017. The letter
further advised that beginning June 1, 2017, Dr. [RRR would see patients at the Parkville
office location on a part-time basis on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays from 9:30 a.m. to”
3:00 p.m, Additionally, the letter indicated the Respondent would be at the office to “assist you
with questions and records through the month of June.” (State Ex. 4.) Finally, the letter noted
the Respondent would be vacationing in Greece from July 1, 2017 through August 14, 2017, and
that upon his return in mid-August, he would be available to assist with referrals and records.

ll, On or around June 8, 2017, the Respondent entered into an employment
agreement with Dr. Ee Under the agreement, Dr. Biagreed to provide temporary, part-time
medical coverage “for the patients and practice of medicine for [the Respondent] until] such time
as the [Respondent] can arrange for full time permanent medical coverage for his patients and
medical practice.” The agreement further provided, “[The Respondent] will continue to own the
practice and run the business of the above medical practice.” (State Ex. 7.)

12. Dr. experienced difficulty interacting with the patients in the Respondent’s
practice, primarily because many of them only spoke Greek, which he did not speak. Asa result,
it was nearly impossible for him to take a medical or family history without the Respondent
present during the examination to act as an interpreter. As a result of the language barrier, it was
difficult for Dr. | to build rapport and bond with the patients, i

13, On or around DY first day working at the Respondent’s practice, the
practice was visited by investigators from the Board, When the investigators expressed concern

- about the practice being open, Dr. Eo expressed concern to the investigators about whether his
employment arrangement with the Respondent was permissible in light of the Consent Order, At

least one of the investigators advised Dr. tet the Board would get back to him with
