appropriately monitored to prevent his past conduct from recurring. Dr, Yacoub was
permanently prohibited from prescribing and dispensing CDS and permanently prohibited from
certifying patients for medical cannabis treatment. In addition, the Order of Reinstatement

placed Dr. Yacoub on probation for a minimurn period of five years with terms and conditions

that included:

3. Dr. Yacoub shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) for evaluation, and if MPRP deems necessary,
treatment.

* * *
6. Dr. Yacoub shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of

MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of MPRP’s Agreement(s) and Plan(s) entered into
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment and evaluations as directed by MPRP.

The Order of Reinstatement further stated:

ORDERED that, if Dr. Yacoub allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this order, Dr. Yacoub shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. Ifa disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law
Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process
before a disciplinary panel; and if a disciplinary panel determines there is no
genuine dispute of fact, Dr. Yacoub shall be give a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that Dr. Yacoub has failed to comply with any term or condition of
this order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr. Yacoub, place Dr. Yacoub on
further probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke Dr. Yacoub’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of
the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon him{.]

Violation of September 3, 2019 Order of Reinstatement
. On September 23, 2019, Dr. Yacoub enroiled in MPRP and signed a Participant

Rehabilitation Agreement and an Addendum to the Rehabilitation Agreement. On October 8,
