addicted to or habitually abusing a narcotic or controlled dangerous substance; selling,
prescribing, giving away, or administering drugs for illegal or illegitimate purposes; and failing
to comply with the dispensing provisions of the Maryland Pharmacy Act, in violation of
Maryland Code Annotated, Health Occupations Article § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (8), (27), and (28),
respectively. On November 20, 2013, Dr. Yacoub surrendered his license to practice medicine in
Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the Board’s disciplinary charges against him.

On February 26, 2016, Dr. Yacoub applied to the Board for reinstatement of his medical
license. By Decision and Order on Application for Reinstatement, dated September 9, 2016,
Panel’B denied Dr. Yacoub’s application for reinstatement.' Panel B expressed serious concerns
about Dr, Yacoub’s judgment and understanding about the dangers involved in CDS and his own
substance use. The Panel was not convinced at that time that their concerns were resolved and
the Panel, therefore, found that it was not in the interest of the health and welfare of the general
public nor consistent with the best interest of the profession to reinstate Dr. Yacoub’s license.
September 3, 2019 Order of Reinstatement

On January 23, 2019, Dr. Yacoub reapplied for the reinstatement of his license. Dr.
Yacoub also submitted an evaluation addressing his fitness to practice medicine. On June 26,
2019, Dr. Yacoub and the Administrative Prosecutor appeared before Panel B to discuss the
reinstatement of Dr. Yacoub’s license. On September 3, 2019, Panel B issued an Order of
Reinstatement which reinstated Dr. Yacoub’s license subject to a series of terms and conditions.
The Panel believed that Dr. Yacoub’s attitude and insight seemed genuine and that he was
sincere about preventing a recurrence. The Panel determined that it was safe for Dr. Yacoub to
return to the practice of medicine under certain conditions to ensure that Dr. Yacoub was
*In 2013, the Board was divided into two disciplinary panels to handle disciplinary matters, Md. Code

Ann., Health Occ. § 14-401 (2014 Repl. Vol.). Consideration of Dr. Yacoub’s reinstatement applications,
both of which occurred after 2013, were considered by Panel B and not the full Board.

2
