State, represented by the administrative prosecutor, moved for a default judgment against the
Respondent and offered the exhibits that it had planned to offer into evidence if the matter had
proceeded to a merits hearing. The ALJ admitted those exhibits into evidence so that the
disciplinary panel of the Board would be able to consider them in reaching its final disposition.
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 (2014). The State also submitted a written Motion for
Proposed Default (Motion), and, as an exhibit thereto, included a letter the Board received from
the Respondent, dated September 23, 2016, notifying the Board that the Respondent had ceased
practicing medicine and surrendered his license.! In the Motion, the State expressly requested
that the ALJ enter a proposed order of default and that the ALJ recommend that the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine be revoked.

On the afternoon of December 6, 2016, the State submitted a certification reflecting that
it had mailed a copy of the Motion to the Respondent that same day. The Respondent has not
submitted any opposition to the Motion. COMAR 28.02.01.12B(3)(a).

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “[i]f, after receiving proper notice, a party fails to
attend or participate in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the judge
may proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated
by the agency, issue a final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.” COMAR
28.02.01.23A. Similarly, the Health Occupations Article provides, in pertinent part:

(d) If after due notice the individual against whom the action is
contemplated fails or refuses to appear, nevertheless the hearing officer

' The State noted that the Respondent’s decision to surrender his license did not resolve the issue
of whether disciplinary sanctions were warranted. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-403(a)
(2014) (providing that a license may not be surrendered while charges are pending against the
individual unless the disciplinary panel agrees, and authorizes the disciplinary panel to set
conditions on its agreement to accept the surrender of a license). However, the letter confirms the
Respondent’s address of record.
