and belligerent. In a raised voice, he repeatedly told her “there will be no jihad in this office,”
and he slammed a newspaper on the desk.

S.W. asked if Dr. Dalton was finished examining her client, and when he did not answer,
she walked into the hallway to call her supervisor to ask how she should handle the situation.
S.W. told her supervisor that Dr. Dalton was being unprofessional. Dr. Dalton followed her into
the hallway and, with his hand raised, walked towards her and asked, “You said what?” S.W.’s
supervisor testified that he heard Dr. Dalton yelling at S.W. while he and S.W. were talking on
the telephone. As Dr. Dalton walked towards her, S.W. felt fearful that he would hit her. S.W.
asked Dr. Dalton if she could have her client leave with her, and Dr. Dalton told S.W. to leave
his office, at which point, he went back into the examination room with Patient A and locked the
door. The Supervisor advised S.W. to call the police and call a higher-level supervisor at
Company A. S.W. called the police and another Company A supervisor. The police arrived and
took statements from §.W. and Dr. Dalton. Another care provider from Company A arrived at
Dr. Dalton’s office and took home Patient A. S.W. also completed an incident report with her
supervisors at Company A.

The second incident concerns S.B., a Certified Nursing Assistant, who worked for
Company B, a company which provides medical adult day care for disabled adults, including
transportation to medical appointments. On February 22, 2016, S.B. transported Patient B, a
wheelchair-bound patient suffering from scabies, a contagious skin condition, to an appointment
with Dr. Dalton. S.B. wore gloves around Patient B to avoid skin-to-skin contact. At Dr.
Dalton’s clinic, after helping Patient B from her wheelchair to the bed, S.B. moved the
wheelchair into the hallway and removed her gloves. Shortly after, S.B. heard Dr. Dalton

talking, but S.B. thought that Dr. Dalton was talking to the patient. Then Dr. Dalton said to S.B.,
