 

worker-client relationship when he locked the examination room door while Patient B was still in
the exam room, thus separating Patient B from S.B., who was responsible for maintaining
custody and contro! over the patient. The State argued that neither S.W. nor S.B. engaged in any
. aggravating behavior that made the Respondent’s behavior either understandable or justifiable.
As a sanction, the State recommended the following to address the Respondent’s
behavior: (1) the Respondent undergo a neurocognitive evaluation to determine whether there is
an organic, physiological alteration to his cognition which causes him to engage in inappropriate
emotional outbursts; (2) the Respondent be suspended for a petiod of one year; and, (3) the
Respondent be referred to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (MPRP), for MPRP
to assess whether any additional remediation or rehabilitation is needed for the Respondent
before he returns to the practice of medicine. The State argued such sanctions are appropriate
because this is the second time the Respondent has been disciplined for engaging in
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. Alternatively, if T find that the Respondent is
not capable of being rehabilitated or is not susceptible to remediation measures, the State
recommended the revocation of his medical license as an appropriate sanction.
For his part, the Respondent acknowledged that be has “thin skin” (Tr.,° p. 364) and
can be easily provoked, and he conceded that his behavior towards both S.W. and S.B. escalated
_ into situations that were “regrettable” and “unfortunate.” (Tr., p. 438.) The Respondent denied
pushing the wheelchair into S.B.’s legs or pushing her in the shoulder, He denied saying the
word “fack to S.B., although he admitted he felt she was being unhelpful and that was a source
of frustration for him. He further admitted he sometimes is not aware of how he comes across to

others and thus did not realize how his behavior was perceived by S.W. and S.B.

3 The abbreviation “Tr.” Stands for “transcript.”
