“T said come over here and help me!” Dr. Dalton yelled at S.B. that she needed to help rotate
Patient B on the examination table. S.B told him that she needed to put on a pair of gloves first.
Dr. Dalton, however, did not wait for her to put on gloves. Instead, he yelled at her to get out of
the office and repeatedly pushed her shoulder with his hand. Dr. Dalton then took the wheelchair
that was in the hallway and pushed it into the back of S.B.’s legs. S.B. called her supervisor to
report what had happened and asked what she should do. At that point, Dr. Dalton had locked
Patient B in the room, while S.B. was in the hallway. The Supervisor told her to call the police
and sent another employee. The police arrived and took statements from S.B. and Dr. Dalton,
and another employee retrieved Patient B.

The ALJ correctly noted that many facts are not in dispute. On both December 5, 2015,
and February 22, 2016, Dr. Dalton engaged in verbal confrontations with S.W. and S.B., which
resulted in Dr. Dalton “locking their clients in examination rooms” and “both women called the
police to aid in de-escalating the situation.” Before this Panel, Dr. Dalton states that he disagrees
with the specific findings, as found by the ALJ, but admits there is evidence in the record from
which the ALJ made her factual findings. In his exceptions, Dr. Dalton does not dispute any of
the facts pertaining to the incident with S.W. Dr. Dalton, however, disputes much of the incident
with S.B. He denies that he pushed S.B.’s shoulder and that he pushed a wheelchair into S.B.
Dr. Dalton notes that he and his assistant both denied that he pushed her or pushed the
wheelchair into S.B.

The ALJ noted that S.B.’s supervisor, who was a patient of Dr. Dalton and had a
favorable history with him, provided testimony against Dr. Dalton. The supervisor testified that
S.B. contemporaneously reported that Dr. Dalton pushed her and pushed a wheelchair into her.

S.B. has consistently reported this assault, not only contemporaneously to her supervisor, but
