 

The Respondent further challenged S.B.’s assertion he cursed at her while telling her to
get out of his office; according to the Respondent and his witnesses, he never uses the f-word.
Mr. . estified that while he was on the phone with S.B., he heard the Respondent say “I
want her‘out of my office. I want her out of my damn office.” (Tr., P. 132.) I find the question
of which profane words the Respondent may have used on February 22, 2016 to be immaterial to
a finding that he engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine on that date. |
Regardless of what he might have said while doing so, the evidence is clear the Respondent
vehemently insisted $.B. get out of his office. S.B. testified he repeatedly told her to leave and
Mo TT vexacare the Respondent insisting S.B. needed to leave the office. The
Respondent became frustrated with what he perceived to be S8.B.’s unwillingness to assist him
with Patient B. (Tr., p. 324.) Rather than calmly repeat his request, or explain to her why he
needed her assistance, he became irate and started yelling at her to leave his office. He
compounded his poor judgment in this regard by locking Patient B in the examination room, out
of the reach and sight of S.B. By doing this, the Respondent unjustifiably interfered with S.B.’s
custody and control over her client, a move that necessitated S.B. calling the police.

The Respondent’s behavior on February 22, 2016 was unprofessional. Even if he was
frustrated with S.B., it was not appropriate to express that frustration by yelling at her, physically
intimidating her, physically assaulting her, and preventing her from retaining custody and control
of Patient B, who was ultimately her responsibility. The Respondent’s behavior was so out-of-
line that S.B. called her supervisor and the police as a means of attempting to deal with him. He
was practicing medicine at the time of the incident, as all of the conduct occurred within the
context of his examination of Patient B. For these reasons and those discussed above, I find the
State has satisfied its burden to demonstrate that on December 5, 2015 and February 22, 2016,
the Respondent violated Section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Act. .

15
