 

Taking all the presented evidence into consideration, J find it is more likely than not the
Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct towards both S.W. and S.B.

Incident on December 5, 2015

The evidence demonstrates that on December 5, 2015, the Respondent engaged in
escalating and inappropriate behavior towards §.W.; the Respondent’s behavior, whether he
intended it to do so or not, reflected a bias towards S.W.’s religious faith that understandably
made her uncomfortable. The Respondent compounded that error in judgment by becoming
increasingly verbally ageressive towards S.W., to the point she called her supervisor to report the
Respondent’s behavior and seek advice on how to proceed. The Respondent further inflamed the
situation by interfering with S.W.’s ability to retain custody and control of her client, Patient A,
when he locked Patient A in an exam room out of §.B.’s reach and sight, which prompted S.W.
to call the police. From the moment the Respondent started questioning S.W. about the attack in
San Bemardino to the moment he locked the exam room door, his behavior towards her was the
opposite of professional or even reasonable.

S.W, came to the Respondent’s practice on December 5, 2015 so her client could be
examined in relation to a cold or other respiratory ailment. She was not there to provoke the
Respondent, or to submit to an examination about her religious beliefs and practices. Bven if it
was reasonable for the Respondent to make colloquial “small talk” with S.W. about the week’s
biggest news event — the San Bernardino attack ~ it was neither reasonable, nor related to the
purpose of ‘her visit, for the Respondent to ask her if she denounced the attackers’ actions or to
lecture her about the laws of the United States. In his testimony, the Respondent explained that
he believed it was his duty to advise S.W. that under the laws of the United States, it is illegal to
murder people. (Tr., pp. 374-376; State Ex. 8.) The Respondent conceded he had no reason to
believe S.W. was planning to murder anyone, but he persisted that he believed it was appropriate

11
