His conduct pertaining to S.B. was similarly, if not more, troubling. Dr. Dalton did not
deem S.B. sufficiently responsive to his request for help. He responded by yelling, cursing, and
physically assaulting her. The Panel finds that Dr. Dalton’s behavior was out-of-control,
unacceptable, and clear evidence that he needs remediation.

Moreover, Dr. Dalton’s inappropriate conduct is not new. The Board issued a Final
Decision and Order in 2010, disciplining him for two instances of aggressive behavior, one
towards a patient and one towards a patient’s family. In this prior decision, the Board issued a
suspension but stayed the suspension while he underwent treatment for anger management. Dr.
Dalton downplays the prior violation and notes that he was compliant with the terms of that
Order and had no incidents between those incidents and the ones at issue in this case. Dr. Dalton
argues that the ALJ “essentially ignored” the period between the incident from the 2010 decision
and the incidents at issue here. While the Panel is unaware of any incident for this period, his
most recent behavior cannot be minimized. In the current case, within a three-month period, Dr.
Dalton had two entirely independent incidents where he became so aggressive that the patients’
aides had to retreat from Dr. Dalton’s advances and call their supervisors and the police.

Dr. Dalton argues that his prior discipline is the only aggravating factor in this case. The
Panel finds otherwise. First, Dr. Dalton argues that previous attempts to rehabilitate him were
successful. These newest incidents, however, demonstrate the contrary. Dr. Dalton committed
similar aggressive and unprofessional conduct, as before, with one that resulted in physical
assault. Similarly, Dr. Dalton claims that “[w]hen viewed over the past years, the incidents were
isolated.” As described above, two incidents, demonstrate repeated, not isolated, conduct.

Finally, Dr. Dalton suggests that a one-year suspension would be a punitive measure,

meant to provide justice for the victims’ mistreatment and would not advance patient safety. Dr.
