The Respondent was even more intransigent in his belief there was nothing amiss in his
behavior with S.B. He seemed to think his frustration at her perceived unwillingness to help him
with Patient B justified his decision to order her out of his office and, again, to interfere with her
custody and control of her client. He dismissed her recounting of the events of February 22, 2016
as “seventy-five percent ... a lie.” (Tr., p. 330, ) He downplayed the seriousness of S.B.’s
allegations against him by insisting they were exaggerated.

I agree with the State that given the repeat nature of the Respondent’s misconduct a more
serious sanction than the one imposed in June 2010 is appropriate. The Respondent’s behavior
, on December 5, 2015 and February 22, 2016 was without justification and was disproportionate
to whatever provocations he may have perceived $.W. and .S.B. to have committed. Regardless
of whether they were rude to him initially — and I have not found that they were — the
Respondent, as a licensed professional, nevertheless had a responsibility to: maintain his
composure and to conduct himself in a manner befitting his profession: He was previously
sanctioned for behaving unprofessionally and thus, he was aware of the kind of behavior the
Board considered to be beyond-the-pale. Based on the totality of the evidence, I find the State’s
recommendation to be reasonable and appropriate, and the Respondent should be suspended for
one year, referred to the MPRP for assessment, and should undergo a neurocognitive evaluation. —
I further agree that upon the lapse of the suspension period, the Respondent should return to a .
disciplinary panel of the Board to determine if additional measures are necessary.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the Proposed Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter of law
that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine as a result of .
his behavior towards S.W. on December 5, 2015 and towards SB on February 22, 2016. Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ., § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (Stipp. 2016).

‘19
