The only persons present during the examination were Individual E and the Respondent. .

Individual E testified as follows:

Dr. Hardi proceeded to examine me. He

asked me what was wrong and I told him I had bad vertigo.
And he -- I don't recall all the particulars of the
examination, I think he palpated my neck. I had on a

dress that unzipped in the front, and he unzipped my dress
down to about my pubic area. And he took a stethoscope
and I -- may have also taken my lungs, I don't really
recall. But he took the stethoscope and put it inside my
bra and had his hand on my nipple to listen to my heart.
He then took the stethoscope off. I think he might have

felt my abdomen and one of us zipped up my dress. I
honestly don't recall. I was very sick. Very nauseous.

I felt like I was going to vomit. I don't recall who

zipped up the dress and he said I would be okay and he
left the room. (Transeript p. 445).

It is very clear from Individual E’s testimony that she cannot remember with certainty the
specifics of what may have occurred. In her testimony, she uses language such as “I don’t
recall”, “I don’t really recall”, “I honestly don’t recall”, “I was very sick” and “J don’t recall who
zipped up the dress.” This is very important in light of the fact that the Respondent denies any
wrong doing. It is important to-note that Individual-E is a subordinate of the Respondent and .

testified quite credibly that she really didn’t want to complain as she did not want to risk any sort ,

- . of retaliation. I have considered this while reviewing her testimony. However, in light of the

fact that it is undisputed that Individual E was extremely uncomfortable because of her
symptoms, sensitive to light, and the examination was conducted in a rushed manner, I do not
believe anything unlawful occurred and Individual E’s memory could be tainted by the
symptoms and overwhelming discomfort she experienced. Moreover, I must consider the fact
that subsequent to the incident, Individual E sought out the Respondent for additional .
consultation when she was under no obligation to do so. I conclude from a preponderance of the

credible evidence that it is more likely-than not that the Respondent did not engage in sexual

38
