Individual B’s credibility or lack thereof, from the content of their testimonies, testimonies of

relevant witnesses, and relevant exhibits.

Prior to the alleged incident, Individual B, the Respondent » the

manager of he division, were relaxing in the hotel hot tub. Individual B does not allege
that the Respondent did anything to her while in the hot tub. Individual B testified that upon
leaving the hot tub, later in the evening, the Respondent pulled her into his room and sexually
assaulted her. Specifically, Individual B testified as follows:

I remember him having like a robe on, a hotel robe on

or white robe. And next thing you know, I mean, he pulled me in
the room and he was -- excuse me he was trying to Itiss me and we
were like wrestling. Like I'm wrestling and, you know, with

him, you know, thinking oh my god this is erazy. And we're
scrambling in that room. And I'm thinking I can't, I gotta get
-out of here. And I remember in all that scrambling, I remember
thinking I can't -- I just can't get to that bed. I just--I

cannot end up on that bed. And I remember seeing like his ring
his wedding band was on the side table next to the bed by his wallet and I
was thinking to myself he knows exactly what he's

doing. He's taking -- he has taken his band off. And I

remember catching a glimpse of myself in the mirror that's on
the wall and, you know, like right when you come into the hotel
room, and seeing myself like -- it's almost like an out of body
experience. You're asking yourself like is this -- this is

crazy. And thankfully and J mean he's touching me and, you
know, hands all over my body and trying to get under my dress
and thankfully because I had that swimsuit on; he couldn't, you
know, get to my clothes. Get to me I should say. But yeah hand

-- swimsuit was -- | mean sorry his hands were, you know, in ~
parts of swimsuit and under my dress. And I remember kicking off
my shoes and that was the only way I was like able to get enough
leverage to like, you know, we ended up being all in a tussle.

Q. And when he began fo pull you in the room, what --
what did you think was happening at that point? What was going through your
mind? ‘

A. Like, J didn't initially think rape, but I just

thought, yeah I thought is this man like wanting to kiss me,
like wanting to have sex with me. That's the first thing I
thought, you know, in my mind J didn't equate it to rape. I

28 .
