Analysis
Touching Similarities
In this case, it should be noted that the Respondent was alleged to have touched the

breasts of at least three patients (Individual C, E and F) in an unprofessional, immoral or sexual
manner. It is also undisputed that the Respondent liked to engage in displays of affection in the
workplace. Several witnesses who worked with the Respondent either liked the displays of
affection or promptly told the Respondent they did not like it, The Respondent offered testimony
and letters from dozens of patients who think he is both an outstanding doctor and human being,
and never did anything that was sexually inappropriate, offensive, illegal or immoral. The fact
that three women have come forward out of the hundreds of patients the Respondent has
examined and treated similarly that may have involved inadvertent touching of a breast does not
automatically mean the Respondent committed the behavior he was accused of. Similarly, the
fact that a considerable number of patients came forward on the Respondent’s behalf to express
their opinion that he is outstanding, does not mean he could not have done what he was accused
of doing in this case. For these reasons, I evaluated the charges arising from the Respondent’s
actions with each Individual on the evidence received including testimony and all relevant :
exhibits as it pertained to each Individual.
. After considering all of the evidence presented in light of the applicable legal authority, I
conclude that the State has met its burden of proof with regard to Individual A. It demonstrated
that the Respondent is subject to sanction under section 14-404(a)(3)(d) and (ii) of the Act,
- because he was guilty of sexual misconduct, immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice

of medicine. That immoral and unprofessional conduct involved his engaging in “sexual
impropriety” as defined by COMAR 10,32.17.02B(3)(a) and (b) as a result of engaging ina

consensual sexual relationship with a then current patient. The evidence that the Respondent

23
