with a physician assistant at Organization 2. Shortly before her
appointment the physician assistant went home sick, and Organization 2
arranged for the Respondent to see her instead.

b. She stated that she attempted to summarize the progress and severity of
her symptoms to the Respondent, but did not feel she was able to do so
because he continued to interrupt her.

c. The Respondent then asked Individual C to get on the examination table
and he began to auscultate her heart. She stated that she “.. -was almost
immediately disturbed by the fact that it seemed as though he was
cupping my left breast while doing so,” but indicated that she shook it
off as just being the Respondent’s examination procedure. She
continued, “the doctor then proceeded to, in my opinion, aggressively
unzip and unbutton my pants — he did not tell me he was going to do
so...this made me very uncomfortable.”

d. The Respondent then told Individual C to pull down her pants and
underwear and roll on her side without explaining why he wanted her to
do this. At this point, “The doctor aggressively pulled my gluteal area
apart and did seem to be doing an external exam. There was a pause and
I suddenly and unexpectedly was penetrated by the doctor’s gloved
finger(s) and was examined so aggressively that I felt extremely
nauseated immediately.” The Respondent asked her if it hurt to which
she replied that it was “really (emphasis on really) uncomfortable.” She
went on to describe tissue damage resulting from this exam, and
physical pain that continued for several days thereafter. A follow-up
exam with a different provider confirmed an abrasion/tear at the
examination site, and Individual C stated concern that “...this exam may
have been an act of physical or sexual assault,”

e. On or about March 24, 2017, Individual C filed a written complaint with
the District of Columbia Department of Health regarding this incident.‘

ee
“ The District of Columbia Department of Health did not find cause for disciplinary action based on its investigation.

7
