Association, American Psychiatric Association, or other standard recognized
professional code of ethics of the health care practitioner's discipline or
specialty.
(4) Sexual Violation,
(a) “Sexual violation” means health care practitioner-patient or key third party
sex, whether or not initiated by the patient or key third party, and engaging in
any conduct with a patient or key third party that is sexual or may be
reasonably interpreted as sexual, regardless of whether the sexual violation
occurs inside or outside of a professional setting.
(b) “Sexual violation” includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Sexual intercourse, genital to genital contact;
(ii) Oral to genital contact,
(iii) Oral to anal contact or genital to anal contact;
(iv) Kissing in a romantic or sexual manner;
(v) Touching the patient's breasts, genitals, or any sexualized body part;
(vi) Actively causing the patient or key third party to touch the health care
practitioner's breasts, genitals, or any sexualized body part;
(vii) Encouraging the patient to masturbate in the presence of the health care
‘practitioner or masturbation by the health care practitioner while the patient
is present;
(viii) Offering to provide practice-related services, such as drugs, in
exchange for sexual favors; and
- (ix) Intentionally exposing the health care practitioner's breasts, genitals, ot any
sexualized body part.

.03 Sexual Misconduct.

“A. ~ Individuals licensed or certified under Health Occupations Article,

Titles 14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland, may not engage in sexual

misconduct, . ‘

B. Health Occupations Article, §§ 14-404(a)(3) and 15-314(3),

Annotated Code of Maryland, includes, but is not limited to, sexual

misconduct.

While the Act fails to provide any standard for or definition of the phrase “unprofessional
conduct,” the Maryland Court of Appéals reasonably defined the term to include conduct that
breaches rules or ethical codes of professional conduct or conduct unbecoming to a member in good
standing in the profession. Finucan vy, Maryland Bd. of Physicians Quality Assurance, 380 Md.
577, 593, cert, denied, 543 U.S. 862 (2004).

As the moving patty, the State has the burden to prove the Charges against the

Respondent. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ, § 14-405(b)(2) (2009); Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §
21
