those records should not be relied upon. Panel B finds that the simplest explanation is likely the
correct one, which is that the electronic medical record program, for unsigned records, updated
or overwrote fields with the most recent information. Thus, when the electronic records were
later printed, the unsigned records contained information that did not exist when the records were
written. In any case, even without considering the unsigned records, the testimonial evidence
and external documentary evidence demonstrates that Dr. Hardi saw Individual A for treatment,
ordered laboratory tests and requested MRIs during their sexual relationship. Panel B thus
agrees with the ALJ that Individual A was Dr. Hardi’s patient during the period in which they
engaged in a sexual relationship.

Dr. Hardi next argues that the ALJ mistakenly conflated the Braintree clinical trial’ and
prior treatment. The ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact correctly describes a visit with Individual
A, on September 20, 2017, as part of the Braintree Project. The ALJ, however, did not state that
the treatment in 2016 was part of the Braintree study. Instead, the ALJ cites the Braintree study
as an example of Dr. Hardi minimizing his role in treating Individual A. To clear any confusion,
Panel B aprees that Dr. Hardi’s treatment of Individual A during the sexual relationship was not
during the Braintree clinical trial. This does not affect Panel B’s finding that Dr. Hardi treated
Individual A before the Braintree trial and during their sexual relationship.

Finally, Dr. Hardi argues that his self-reporting the sexual relationship to the Board is not
probative of his guilt, because the admission was only that he had a relationship with a coworker
who received treatment at a division where Dr. Hardi was a partner and not that she was his
patient at the time. He claims that his self-report was not an admission of guilt, but, rather, an

attempt to get ahead of an incorrect report that he anticipated from his employer. The Panel does

6 The Braintree clinical trial was a clinical trial for a new type of colonoscopy preparation.
