a. Individual E has been employed with Organization 2 as a physician
assistant since approximately 2016. While the Respondent was with
Organization 2 she worked with him approximately two days out of the
week as one of her supervising physicians.

b. Individual E stated that one day in March 2017 she became ill with
severe vertigo while at work. She went into an exam room to lay down,
and the office manager asked the Respondent to examine her. She states
that she did not ask him to come into the room, but he entered the room
to conduct an examination. He asked her what was wrong and she
explained it to him, at which point he proceeded to unzip her dress all
the way down to her pubic area. “And then he took his stethoscope and
he put his stethoscope and his hand inside my bra. And he put the
stethoscope over my nipple and proceeded to auscultate my heart in that
fashion.” After which he told her she would be fine, zipped her dress
back up and walked out of the room. As a result of this examination
Individual E stated that she felt violated, and in her 30 years of
experience being a physician assistant she had never seen or heard of
anyone using such a technique to auscultate someone’s heart.

¢. She stated that she continued to work with the Respondent after this
incident, but never confronted him about it.

d. Individual E stated that she was fearful of retaliation “...because I’m a
physician assistant and he was a senior partner.”

INDIVIDUAL F

15. On June 20, 2018, Board staff interviewed Individual F , who testified to the
following information under oath:

a. Individual F testified that in February 2015 she was experiencing
gastrointestinal bleeding and was referred to Hospital 1 by her primary
physician. The Respondent was the on-call physician that day and
performed an endoscopy on Individual F and requested that she
schedule a follow-up appointment approximately three weeks later.

b. After the follow-up appointment the Respondent and Individual F exited
the examination room. As Individual F was in the hallway she stated
that the Respondent came out of what she believed was the records

9
