ISSUES!

1, Whether the Respondent’ s consensual sexual relationship with Individual A, while

she was a patient, constituted (i) unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
_ Gi) immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; and/or (iii) sexual misconduct, as
charged by the Board? .

2. Whether the Respondent engaged in conduct with Individual B in 2014 that
constituted (i) unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (ii) immoral
conduct in the practice of. medicine; and/or (iii) sexual misconduct, as charged by the
Board?

3, Whether the Respondent conducted an examination of Individual C that constituted
(i) unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (ii) immoral conduct in the
practice of medicine; and/or (iii) sexual misconduct, as charged by the Board?

4. Whether the Respondent conducted an examination of Individual D that constituted
(i) unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (ii) immoral conduct in the
ptactice of medicine; and/or (iii) sexual misconduct, as charged by the Board?

5, Whether the complaint of Individual D is time barred?

6. Whether the Respondent conducted an examination of Individual E that constituted
(i) unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (ii) immoral conduct in the
practice of medicine; and/or (iii) sexual misconduct, as charged by the Board?

7, Whether the Respondent touched Individual F in a manner that constituted (i)
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; (ii) immoral conduct in the

practice of medicine; and/or (iii) sexual misconduct, as charged by the Board?

 

' On August 6, 2019, I issued a written ruling on the Respondent's Motion to Dismiss or in the Alternative, for
Summary Decision, as to Individuals B, C, D and E. The parties were advised at the pre-hearing conference that
jssues concerning peer review and jurisdiction regarding these individuals would not be addressed in my proposed
decision if I made rulings on these issues prior to the hearing on the merits.

3
