IL

BOARD INVESTIGATION

INDIVIDAL A

9. On May 22, 2018, Board staff interviewed Individual A, who testified to the

following information under oath:

a.

The Respondent and Individual A initially met approximately 20-25
years ago when Individual A was a staff nurse at Hospital 1 where the
Respondent was working as a physician.

.» During the course of Individual A’s employment with Hospital 1, she

began to see the Respondent as a patient for treatment of a condition
within his specialty. Individual A stated that the Respondent,
“functioned pretty much as a primary care” doctor for her, and that she
was inconsistent in terms of making and keeping appointments with the
Respondent, but would see him whenever she was “having a flare.”

Individual A stated that when the Respondent began new employment
in approximately 2009, she followed him as a patient to his new practice
at Organization 2. In approximately 2010 the Respondent reached out to
Individual A and informed her of an opening for a practice manager
with Organization 2, a position which she ultimately accepted and
assumed on or about June 1, 2010.

. During the course of Individual A’s employment with Organization 2,

she continued to see the Respondent as a patient. In or around 2012, the
Respondent also began seeing Individual A’s daughter as a patient,
which he continued to do for approximately two years until Individual
A’s daughter moved out of the area.

Individual A stated that in approximately February 2016 she began
having a sexual relationship with the Respondent after the two of them
went to dinner and a concert together. She stated that while they were
on a bus on the way to a show the Respondent began acting
aggressively, “... groping, kissing...trying to get his hands where I didn’t
want them to be certainly on a city bus.” Individual A stated that after
this outing the Respondent asked her if she would be interested in
spending the night together, an invitation to which she would
subsequently assent.
