With regard to the Respondent, it is clear that he also has a motive to lie about what
happened following the hot tub encounter. He would like to continue practicing medicine and
certainly avoid criminal prosecution, However, there is no evidence that corroborates Individual
B’s assertions and no evidence that the Respondent is lying in his steadfast denial of assaulting
Individual B or his denial regarding any other sexual misconduct towards her. The Respondent
acknowledged that he complements women on their apparel and may physically touch someone
ina non-sexual way to show affection, but only does so with people who would reciprocate.
Indeed, the record is replete with testimony and stories from some women who enjoyed the
compliments and consensual displays of physical affection toward them. Nevertheless, the
evidence indicates the Respondent knows the difference between a warm physical embrace and

offering flattering words and flat out sexual assault and sexual violence, Moreover, there is no

evidence that the Respondent was verbally inappropriate towards Individual B. Individual B

testified that the Respondent would say things like “move your beautiful brown butt out of the
way,” Despite this assertion, there is nothing to corroborate it. There is however Individual B’s

assertion that upon termination, she filed a complaint with the EEOC. She acknowledged that

_ the EEOC did not find a staff, including the Respondent, did anything unlawful towards her

when she was employed with I. This is another reason why I find the Respondent more
credible regarding his denial of wrongdoing than Individual B’s allegations.

Confining my analysis solely to the Respondent’s interactions with Individual B, there is
no corroborating evidence of any behavior manifested by him that would support a finding of

immoral and unprofessional misconduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Section 14-

/ 404(a)(3)(4) and (ii) of the Health Occupations Article and sexual misconduct, as prohibited by

COMAR 10.32.17.01 and .02B.

32
