(3) Has engaged in any sexual behavior that would be considered unethical or
unprofessional according to the code of ethics, professional standards of
conduct, or regulations of the appropriate health occupations b board under this
article.’
(c) Subject to the provisions of the law governing contested cases, if an applicant,
licensee, or certificate holder violates a regulation adopted under subsection (a) of
this section a board may:

(2) Reprimand the licensee or certificate holder;
(3) Place the licensee or certificate holder on probation; or
(4) Suspend or revoke the license or certificate.

Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 1-212(a), (b) and (c) (Supp. 2019).

In addition, the Board charged the Respondent with violating the provisions of COMAR
10.32.17, which existed at the relevant time, as follows:

01 Scope.

This chapter prohibits sexual misconduct against patients or key
third parties by individuals licensed or certified under Health Occupations
Article, Titles 14 and 15, Annotated Code of Maryland,

.02 Definitions.
B Terms Defined

® Sexual Impropriety.
(a) “Sexual impropriety” means behavior, gestures, or expressions that are
seductive, sexually suggestive, or sexually demeaning to a patient or a key
third party regardless of whether the sexual impropriety occurs inside or
outside of a professional setting.
(b) “Sexual impropriety” includes, but is not limited to:
@) Failure to provide privacy for disrobing;
(ii) Performing a pelvic or rectal examination without the use of gloves;
(iii) Using the health care practitioner-patient relationship to initiate or
solicit a dating, romantic,-or sexual relationship; and
(iv) Initiation by the health care practitioner of conversation regarding the
health care practitioner's sexual problems, sexual likes or dislikes, or
fantasies.
(3) “Sexual misconduct” means a health care practitioner's behavior toward a
patient, former patient, or key third party, which includes:
(a) Sexual impropriety;
(b) Sexual violation; or
(c) Engaging in a dating, romantic, or sexual relationship which violates the
. code of ethics of the American Medical Association, American Osteopathic

20
