Individual B testified that approximately two weeks after the Florida trip she told her co-
| of the accusations against the Respondent. Ms testified that
to the best of her recollection, the only thing she remembers Individual B telling her was “Dr.
Hardi came on to me.” Ms. was very specific and acknowledged that Individual B did
not report any type of behavior on the part of the Respondent that was criminally sexual or
assaultive. Individual B’s description to the Board and in her testimony was very graphic and
beyond a mere suggestion of someone expressing an amorous interest in the form of “coming on
to me,” The behavior desoribed was extremely violent and sexually assaultive. I must
emphasize that a delay in reporting sexual assault is not uncommon and may happen for many
reasons. However, in this case, there is simply no evidence to corroborate the assertion that
Individual B made a disclosure to any human being after the alleged sexual assault. According to
the only witness with the Respondent and Individual B on the Florida trip, os
Individual B came to breakfast the day after the alleged incident and did not display any signs
that she was troubled about anything. Lastly, Individual B testified that after the alleged incident
with the Respondent, she was so overcome with grief and anguish that she immediately called

“her boyfriend. However, when questioned at the hearing, she was unable to remember her
boyftiend’s name. It strains credulity that Individual B was extremely distraught, reached out to
someone and can remember the details of an alleged assault but does not remember the last name
of a boyfriend that she claims she trusted enough to disclose the details of her assault. This
further detracts from Individual B’s credibility. In assessing Individual B’s lack of credibility, 1
further find that all of the evidence indicates she alleged a sexual assault occurred and only
disclosed her allegations on the very same day she was terminated for cause. This is a potential
motive to fabricate the sexual assault allegations. Under the totality of the evidence, there is

simply no corroborating, independent evidence to support Individual B’s assertions.

31
