every stage of the examination and observed Dr. Hardi use the stethoscope. The medical student
also said that Dr, Hardi did not place his hands on Individual C’s breasts. Based on this
corroborating eyewitness account, Panel B agrees with the ALJ that there was insufficient
evidence to support a violation with respect to Individual c!

The State argues that Panel B should find that Dr. Hardi inappropriately unzipped
Individual E’s dress and put his hand on her nipple when listening to her heart with his
stethoscope. The ALJ found that Individual’s recollection was hazy based on her vertigo
symptoms. Panel B concurs with the ALJ that there was insufficient evidence to support a
violation.

Finally, the State argues Dr. Hardi acted unprofessionally by touching Individual F’s
breast. The State does not argue that this conduct was sexual or immoral. The ALJ found that,
while Dr. Hardi touched her breast, he did so in the hallway while Individual F was fully clothed
in order to show the source of her gastrointestinal bleed. Dr. Hardi explained that the bleed was
at the end of the ribcage, just below her sternum. Panel B finds that Dr. Hardi did not
intentionally touch Patient F’s breast. Rather, the Panel believes that he was pointing at her
sternum or ribcage and, when she stepped forward expecting to look at the medical chart in his
hand, he inadvertently touched Individual F’s breast. The Panel does not adopt the ALJ’s
reasoning that it would have been acceptable to intentionally touch her breast to show her the
source of the bleed, both because the breast was not the location of the bleed and because it is
inappropriate to touch a patient’s breast for a non-clinical purpose without consent. In any case,

the panel finds that the contact was inadvertent and did not constitute unprofessional conduct.

T The ALJ found that the allegations pertaining to Individual D were time barred. The State did not file
exceptions to that finding, and thus, Panel B will not disturb the ALJ’s conclusion.
