argues that Individual A’s testimony should not be believed because, according to Dr. Hardi,
Individual A altered the records to make it appear that their sexual relationship occurred while he
was treating her.

Panel B finds that Individual A had a medical visit with Dr. Hardi on July 21, 2016.
Individual A’s records contain a lab report of “Bun/Creatinine” tests and a radiologist report of
an MRI ordered at the July 21, 2016 visit. The lab and radiologist report listed Dr. Hardi as the
ordering/requesting physician. The ALJ relied. on the laboratory report to conclude that the
patient-physician relationship existed during the sexual relationship period without reliance on
the July 21, 2016 record.

Dr. Hardi’s claim that Individual A altered the medical records to create a false “paper
trail” of a patient-physician relationship is not consistent with the purported alterations. Of the
six records that contain the identical description of a September 28, 2017 medical procedure that
occurred after those visits, only two were incriminating, meaning only two were from the period
of their sexual relationship. The remaining four records were not with Dr. Hardi during their
sexual relationship. One record was for a visit with Dr. Hardi before their sexual relationship
began. (Ex. A2 at 190). One record, where Dr. Hardi was listed as the referring physician, was
for a visit after the sexual relationship ended. (Ex. A2 at 138). And two records do not involve
visits with Dr. Hardi. These two records pertain to two physician assistants in the practice. (Ex.
A2 at 148, 175). Dr. Hardi does not provide any explanation as to why those records would have
been identically altered, and the Panel finds no logical reason for anyone to have done so. Dr.
Hardi has also not offered an explanation on why the laboratory record from the laboratory and
radiology reports from the radiologist would have listed Dr. Hardi as the ordering/requesting

physician had he not ordered the labs or requested the MRI. Dr. Hardi provides no reason why
