Individual D claims he filed a complaint with the Board in 2006 complaining of the
Respondent’s actions. There is nothing in the evidentiary record to support this assertion.
Moreover, the Board Investigator Gretchen Westphal, testified that the Board does not lose
complaints, She further testified that the Board’s database does not indicate Individual D filed a
complaint prior to May 18, 2018, For this reason, the charges regarding Individual D shall be
‘dismissed as the Respondent requests. With regard to time limitations, the law is as follows:

§ 1-603. Charges
(a) Time limitation. -- Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, a
health occupations board may not bring charges against a licensee or certificate
holder based solely on events contained in a complaint the board receives more than

6 years after:

(1) The day the complainant actually discovered the facts that form the basis
of the complaint; or

(2) The day when a reasonable person exercising due diligence should have
discovered the facts that form the basis of the complaint.

Mad, Code Ann., Health Occ. § 1-603(a) (Supp. 2019).
The parties acknowledge that Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 1-603 was enacted in 2010.

I agree with the Respondent that there is a time-bar for the following reason. The annotations to

_ section 1-603 indicate that it does not apply to any complaint made before the effective date of
the Act. The annotation to Health Occ. section 1-603, at Section 5, chs. 533 and 534, Acts 2010,
specifically states “except as otherwise provided by law, this Act shall be construed to apply only
prospectively and may not be applied or interpreted to have any effect on or application to any
complaint made to a health occupations board on or before the effective date of this act.” In this
case, the Board did not receive a complaint concerning the Respondent from Individual D before
the relevant law’s effective date in 2010. There is simply no evidence to support a finding that a

complaint was filed in 2006 as.alleged by Individual D. As a result, even though the evidence is _

36
