dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude[.]” Jd. at 459-60,
“[I]n the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the concept of moral
turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 483
(2005).

The language of the statute that Dr. Hoffberg pled guilty to, 18 U.S.C. § 371 is:

If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the United
States, or to defraud the United States, or any agency thereof in any manner or for
any purpose, and one or more of such persons do any act to effect the object of the
conspiracy, each shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five
years, or both.

If, however, the offense, the commission of which is the object of the conspiracy,
is a misdemeanor only, the punishment for such conspiracy shall not exceed the
maximum punishment provided for such misdemeanor.

Read together with the elements of the crime enumerated in the plea agreement, an intent to
defraud is an essential element of the crime that Dr. Hoffberg pled guilty to. A “significant
characteristic of conspiracy to commit a crime is that the defendant, to be found guilty of
conspiracy, ‘must have a specific intent to commit the offense which is the object of the
conspiracy.” Alston v. State, 414 Md. 92, 114-15 (2010). Accordingly, through Dr. Hoffberg’s
conspiracy, he possessed the specific intent to knowingly defraud the U.S. Government, which
constitutes a crinie involving moral turpitude per se.

In addition to the elements of the crime, the stipulated facts in this case also establish that
Dr. Hoffberg’s crime involved moral turpitude. In considering the facts of the case, the relevant
consideration is whether the crime “was accompanied by a fraudulent or dishonest intent.”
Walman, 280 Md. at 462. In this case, Dr. Hoffberg admitted to accepting money in exchange
for prescribing Subsys to his non-cancer patients, which was not medically indicated and, in

doing so, was dishonest to his patients and the government for purposes of his own personal
