On September 27, 2021, Dr. Hoffberg, through his counsel, acknowledged receipt of the

Petition ‘and stated that he had discussed the Petition with his client.

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel B issues this Final

Decision and Order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1).

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:

1, On May 20, 2021, Dr. Hoffberg pled guilty to one count of Conspiracy to Violate
Anti-Kickback statutes, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371, in the United States District
Court for the District of Maryland.! USA v. Hoffberg, case number:
1:21-cr-00178-GLR-1.

2. The plea agreement contained a stipulation of facts, which included:

The Defendant, Howard Hoffberg, served as the Associate Medical
Director and part-owner of Rosen-Hoffberg Rehabilitation and Pain Management
(the “Practice”). :

The Defendant is a doctor and was licensed to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland. The Defendant was a Medicare provider and submitted claims
to Medicare, which is a “health care benefit program,” as defined in 18 U.S.C. §
24(b), and a “Federal health care program,” as defined in 42 U.S.C. §

 

' The elements of the offense, as contained in the plea agreement are, as follows:

a, That two or more persons agreed to defraud the United States by agreeing to obstruct or
interfere with one of the United States government’s lawful functions by deceit, craft,
trickery, or dishonest means, as charged in the Information, to wit, by soliciting or
receiving remuneration (in the form of kickbacks or bribes) in return for ordering, or
arranging for or recommending the purchasing of a good or item that could be paid for, in
whole or in part, by a Federal health care program, in violation of 42 U.S.C. §
1320a-7b(b);

b. That the Defendant was a party to or a member of that agreement;
c. That the Defendant joined the agreement or conspiracy knowing of its objective to
defraud the United States and intending to join together with at least one other

conspirator to achieve that objective;

d. That at some time during the existence of the agreement or conspiracy, at least one of its
members performed an overt act in order to further the objective of the agreement.
