The plea agreement contained a stipulation of facts, which included:

The Defendant, Howard Hoffberg, served as the Associate Medical Director
and part-owner of Rosen-Hoffberg Rehabilitation and Pain Management (the
“Practice”).

The Defendant is a doctor and was licensed to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. The Defendant was a Medicare provider and submitted claims to
Medicare, which is a “health care benefit program,” as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 24(b),
and a “Federal health care program,” as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b(f). In
September 2011, the Defendant certified to Medicare that he would comply with
Medicare rules and regulations, including that he would refrain from violating the
federal anti-kickback statute. Further, in August 2013, the Defendant certified to
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), as part of his ability to prescribe
drugs known as Transmucosal Immediate Release Fentanyl (“TIRF”) drugs, that:
(a) he understood TIRF drugs are indicated only for the management of
breakthrough pain in cancer patients; (b) he understood that TIRF drugs can be
abused by patients; and (c) he understood that one TIRF drug is not interchangeable
with another TIRF drug.

However, starting in June 2012, the Defendant knowingly and willfully
solicited and received kickbacks and bribes for himself in the form of payments
from Insys Therapeutics, Inc. (“Insys”) and related entities. Insys is a
pharmaceutical company. In January 2012, the FDA approved Insys’s application
to sell and market a TIRF drug named Subsys. The FDA only approved Subsys to
treat cancer patients experiencing break-through pain, which is a sudden onset of
pain in cancer patients that cannot be controlled with their usual treatment regimen.
Subsys is a potent opioid designed to rapidly enter a patient’s bloodstream upon
being sprayed under the tongue. Subsys contains fentanyl, which is a synthetic
opioid pain reliever that has a high potential for abuse and addiction. Because of
the limited number of cancer patients experiencing breakthrough pain who fit the
FDA-approved criteria, Insys devised an illegal kickback and bribery scheme to
induce the Defendant and other to prescribe Subsys off-label for conditions other
than breakthrough pain in cancer patients. In order to conceal and disguise that
kickbacks and bribes were being paid to the Defendant to prescribe Subsys, Insys
falsely designated payments to the Defendant as “honoraria” for purportedly
providing educational programs about Subsys (the “Speakers Bureau Program”).

That the Defendant joined the agreement or conspiracy knowing of its objective to defraud the

United States and intending to join together with at least one other conspirator to achieve that
objective;

That at some time during the existence of the agreement or conspiracy, at least one of its members
performed an overt act in order to further the objective of the agreement.

3
