The Defendant’s participation in the Speakers Bureau Program was a sham. The
Defendant often made these presentations at high-end restaurants, and to staff at the
Practice and/or to persons who could not even prescribe controlled substances. The
Defendant knew that these presentations were not designed to promote any bona
fide educational initiative about Subsys but rather were required to receive the
honoraria. Indeed, on one occasion, the Defendant was paid by Insys even though
a speaking event was cancelled and no educational presentation was given at all.
The Defendant was paid $66,600 by Insys and related entities for these events,
including a check in the amount of $3,000 on July 15, 2015, a check in the amount
of $3,000 on September 29, 2015, and a check in the amount of $3,000 on
December 7, 2015. These payments were in fact kickbacks and bribes that were
paid, at least in part, to induce the Defendant to prescribe, or in exchange for the
Defendant prescribing, Subsys. Pursuant to this illegal scheme, the Defendant did
prescribe Subsys to patients of the Practice who were not suffering from cancer,
some of whom insurance coverage was paid for, in whole or in part, by a federal
healthcare program. He did so through January 2018. The Defendant switched
several other patients to Subsys from another fentanyl-based drug because of the
kickbacks he received from Insys, even though he previously certified that TIRF
drugs were not interchangeable.

3. On January 10, 2022, Panel B issued a final decision and order suspending Dr. Hoffberg’s
license to practice medicine pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1).

4. On March 2, 2022, Dr. Hoffberg was sentenced to eight months in prison to commence on
his reporting date of April 18, 2022, followed by one year of supervised probation, and
payment of a $55,000.00 fine.

5. The time for filing an appeal has passed and the conviction has not been reversed and the
guilty plea has not been set aside.

DISCUSSION
Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), Dr. Hoffberg may respond to the order to show
cause, in writing, to address the following limited issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b)
Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the
defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.” Dr.
Hoffberg submitted a response to the Petition asking to address the Panel at a show cause hearing.
The ability to address the panel at a hearing, however, is “discretionary based on the existence of

genuine issues of material fact or law as determined by the disciplinary panel.” COMAR
