10.32.02.07E(3). Dr. Hoffberg did not state what issues he wished to discuss with the disciplinary
panel and did not appeal the January 10, 2022 Final Decision and Order. Because the Panel has
already determined that Dr. Hoffberg’s conviction for Conspiracy to Violate Anti-Kickback
Statutes is a crime involving moral turpitude there are no material issues of law to resolve. The
Panel, in its discretion, therefore, denies Dr. Hoffberg’s request for a hearing.

Section 14-404(b)(2) of the Health Occupations Article provides: “After completion of the
appellate process if the conviction has not been reversed or the plea has not been set aside with
respect to a crime involving moral turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation of a
license on the certification by the Office of the Attorney General.” In the final decision and order
issued on January 10, 2022, Panel B determined that Dr. Hoffberg’s conviction and guilty plea to
one count of Conspiracy to Violate Anti-Kickback statutes, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371, is a
crime involving moral turpitude and suspended Dr. Hoffberg’s license to practice medicine. The
relevant portion of the discussion section from the January 10, 2022 order is as follows:

Under Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1), a disciplinary panel has the obligation
and discretion to determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral
turpitude for licensing and disciplinary purposes. “The term moral turpitude has
been defined generally as importing an act of baseness, vileness or depravity in the
private and social duties which a man owes to his fellow men, or to society in
general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and duty between man
and man.” Attorney Grievance Comm’n of Md. v. Walman, 280 Md. 453, 459
(1977) (internal quotation marks omitted). “[I]t is settled that whatever else [moral
turpitude] may mean. . . a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element
is a crime involving moral turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of
offenses involving intentional dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes
involving moral turpitude[.]” Jd. at 459-60. “[I]n the context ofa licensing board’s
review of the conduct of its licensee, the concept of moral turpitude is rather
broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 483
(2005).

The language of the statute that Dr. Hoffberg pled guilty to, 18 U.S.C. §
371 is:

If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense
against the United States, or to defraud the United States, or any
agency thereof in any manner or for any purpose, and one or more

5
