prescribing, Subsys. Pursuant to this illegal scheme, the Defendant did prescribe

_Subsys to patients of the Practice who were not suffering from cancer, some of
whom insurance coverage was paid for, in whole or in part, by a federal
healthcare program. He did so through January 2018. The Defendant switched
several other patients to Subsys from another fentanyl-based drug because of the
kickbacks he received from Insys, even though he previously certified that TIRF
drugs were not interchangeable.

3. As of the date of this Order, Dr. Hoffberg has not been sentenced.

DISCUSSION

Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), Dr. Hoffberg may respond to the order to show
cause, in writing, to address the following limited issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b)
Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the
defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.” Dr.
Hoffberg. submitted a response to the Petition, through counsel, simply stating that he
acknowledged the Petition to Suspend and discussed it with counsel. Accordingly, Dr. Hoffberg
did not dispute that the crime he pled guilty to, Conspiracy to Violate Anti-Kickback Statutes, is
a crime involving moral turpitude.

Under Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1), a disciplinary panel has the obligation and discretion
to determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral turpitude for licensing and
disciplinary purposes. “The term moral turpitude has been defined generally as importing an act
of baseness, vileness or depravity in the private and social duties which a man owes to his fellow
men, or to society. in general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and duty
between man and man.” Attorney Grievance Comm'n of Md. v. Walman, 280 Md. 453, 459
(1977) (internal quotation marks omitted). “[lI]t is settled that whatever else [moral turpitude]
may mean... a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element is a crime involving

moral turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of offenses involving intentional
