of such persons do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy,
each shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five
years, or both.

If, however, the offense, the commission of which is the
object of the conspiracy, is a misdemeanor only, the punishment for
such conspiracy shall not exceed the maximum punishment
provided for such misdemeanor.

Read together with the elements of the crime enumerated in the plea
agreement, an intent to defraud is an essential element of the crime that Dr.
Hoffberg pled guilty to. A “significant characteristic of conspiracy to commit a
crime is that the defendant, to be found guilty of conspiracy, must have a specific
intent to commit the offense which is the object of the conspiracy.” Alston v. State,
414 Md. 92, 114-15 (2010). Accordingly, through Dr. Hoffberg’s conspiracy, he
possessed the specific intent to knowingly defraud the U.S. Government, which
constitutes a crime involving moral turpitude per se.

In addition to the elements of the crime, the stipulated facts in this case also
establish that Dr. Hoffberg’s crime involved moral turpitude. In considering the

facts of the case, the relevant consideration is whether the crime “was accompanied

by a fraudulent or dishonest intent.” Walman, 280 Md. at 462. In this case, Dr.

Hoffberg admitted to accepting money in exchange for prescribing Subsys to his

non-cancer patients, which was not medically indicated and, in doing so, was

dishonest to his patients and the government for purposes of his own personal gain.

Walman, 280 Md. at 459-60. Therefore, the facts of this case also establish that Dr.

Hoffberg pled guilty to a crime involving moral turpitude.

The appellate process is now complete and Dr. Hoffberg’s conviction and guilty plea have
not been set aside, as a result, Panel B is now required to order the revocation of Dr. Hoffberg’s
license to practice medicine pursuant to section 14-404(b)(2) of the Health Occupations Article.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

In the January 10, 2022 Final Decision and Order, Panel B concluded that Dr. Hoffberg

pled guilty to and was convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude. Pursuant to section 14-

404(b)(2) of the Health Occupations Article, upon the completion of the appellate proceedings,

Panel B is now required to order the revocation of Dr. Hoffberg’s license to practice medicine.
