1320a-7b(f). In September 2011, the Defendant certified to Medicare that he
would comply with Medicare rules and regulations, including that he would
refrain from violating the federal anti-kickback statute. Further, in August 2013,
the Defendant certified to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), as
part of his ability to prescribe drugs known as Transmucosal Immediate Release
Fentanyl (“TIRF”) drugs, that: (a) he understood TIRF drugs are indicated only
for the management of breakthrough pain in cancer patients; (b) he understood
that TIRF drugs can be abused by patients; and (c) he understood that one TIRF
drug is not interchangeable with another TIRF drug.

’. However, starting in June 2012, the Defendant knowingly and willfully
solicited and received kickbacks and bribes for himself in the form of payments
from. Insys . Therapeutics, Inc. (“Insys”) and related entities, Insys is a
pharmaceutical company. In January 2012, the FDA approved Insys’s application
to sell and market a TIRF drug named Subsys. The FDA only approved Subsys to
treat cancer patients experiencing break-through pain, which is a sudden onset of
pain in cancer patients that cannot be controlled with their usual treatment
regimen. Subsys is a potent opioid designed to rapidly enter a patient’s
bloodstream upon being sprayed under the tongue. Subsys contains fentanyl,
which is a synthetic opioid pain reliever that has a high potential for abuse and
addiction. Because of the limited number of cancer patients experiencing
breakthrough pain who fit the FDA-approved criteria, Insys devised an illegal
kickback and bribery scheme to induce the Defendant and othcrs to prescribe
Subsys off-label. for conditions other than breakthrough pain in cancer patients.
In order:to coriceal and disguise that kickbacks and bribes were being paid to the
Defendant to prescribe Subsys, Insys falsely designated payments to the
Defendant as “honoraria” for purportedly providing educational programs about
Subsys (the “Speakers Bureau Program”). The Defendant’s participation in the
Speakers Bureau Program was a sham. The Defendant often made these
presentations at high-end restaurants, and to staff at the Practice and/or to persons
who could not even prescribe controlled substances. The Defendant knew that
these presentations were not designed to promote any bona fide educational
initiative about Subsys but rather were required to receive the honoraria, Indeed,
on one occasion, the Defendant was paid by Insys even though a speaking event
was cancelled and no educational presentation was given at all. The Defendant
was paid $66,600 by Insys and related entities for these events, including a check
in the amount of $3,000 on July 15, 2015, a check in the amount of $3,000 on
September 29, 2015, and a check in the amount of $3,000 on December 7, 2015.
These payments were in fact kickbacks and bribes that were paid, at least in part,
to induce the Defendant to prescribe, or in exchange for the Defendant
