Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Christopher Wendel, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license as if it
were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any
other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board
or Panel A to the same extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my
original Maryland medical license number D31154, and my most recent wallet-sized renewal
card. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license

will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply
for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor is not
required to grant reinstatement. I further understand that if I ever file petition for reinstatement, I
will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked. I also understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of
demonstrating my professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the satisfaction of
Panel A or its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand
and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I
voluntarily choose to surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms
and conditions set out herein. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

CNWendel b>

Christopher Wendel, M.D.
