Christopher Wendel, M.D.

Febrvg v , 2017

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D31154
MBP Case Number: 2017-0242

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland, License Number D31154, effective immediately. I understand that
upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with
or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice
of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and
other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed
individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”)
acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A.

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation concerning my medical leave of
absence. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to
avoid further investigation and due to my current health issues. I recognize that for all purposes
relevant to medical licensure that there is sufficient evidence to support a conclusion that I am
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid further investigation and the issuance of charges. I do not wish to
contest the allegations that I am currently professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (4).

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest
any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony,
