Devinder Singh, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Martin W. Gallagher, Jr., M.D.
Letter of Surrender

longer be required to comply with the probationary conditions as long as I have
terminated my medical practice and do not possess a medical license.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender because of my retirement from the practice of medicine. I
affirm that I will retire from the practice of medicine on or before December 31, 2014,
and effective that date, I affirm I will not practice medicine in the State of Maryland. I
affirm I will not maintain a medical office nor will maintain any privileges at any
hospital, outpatient surgical facility, nursing home or other health care facility in the State
of Maryland.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have signed a
Consent Order and subsequently surrendered my license. I also understand that this Letter
of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 et seq. (2014).

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license number D31880, and my most recent wallet-sized
renewal card. I acknowledge that on or before the date Disciplinary Panel A accepts this
Letter of Surrender, I shall deliver to the Board: (1) any and all Medical Assistance
prescription forms in my possession; (2) any prescription forms and pads in my
possession; and (3) any prescription forms or pads on which my name and Drug
Enforcement Administration Registration Number are imprinted.

I acknowledge that on or before the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
shall deliver to Audrey P. Clark, Chief, or any successor, Division of Drug Control, 4201
Patterson Avenue, 1* Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215, my Maryland Controlled
- Dangerous Substances Certificate #M55492 (expiration date February 29, 2016); and my
Drug Enforcement Administration Registration Card # AG3016032 (expiration date
September 30, 2017) to Walter Staples, or any successor, Group Supervisor, Drug
Enforcement Administration, Techworld Plaza, 800 K Street, NW, Suite 500,
Washington D.C. 20001.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that J have no right
to reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. I further agree that
a Disciplinary Panel of the Board is not obligated to consider any application for
licensure that I might file at a future date and that I waive any hearing rights that I might
possess regarding any such application.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have consulted
