Martin W. Gallagher, Jr., M.D.

Date: Dé conubyy QY wil

Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine

Martin W. Gallagher, Jr., M.D.

License Number: D31880

MBP Case Numbers: 7714-0025 / 2010-0659 & 2010-0745

Dear Dr. Singh and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D31880. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in
the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act’’), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101
et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective
date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Disciplinary Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

My decision to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland has been prompted by my decision to retire from the practice of medicine.

On July 15, 2014, I was charged with violating the Maryland Practice Act. These
charges were resolved in a October 29, 2014, Consent Order (“Consent Order”), in which
Disciplinary Panel A concluded that my actions constituted unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine and a violation of the terms and conditions of probation pursuant to
4/4 of the October 8, 2013, Final Decision and Order. Contingent upon obtaining a
supervisor, I was placed on probation for a minimum of two years subject to terms and
conditions. (A copy of the Consent Order is attached hereto as Attachment A.) I
acknowledge that the Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order
of Disciplinary Panel A; however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, J will no
