 

ORDERED that the Respondent's license is immediately SUSPENDED; and it is
further ORDERED:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP’). Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to
schedule an initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, the
Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and
comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by
MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including
disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. The
Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug
or alcohol treatment records;

3. The Respondent shall remain in the MPRP for the length of time
recommended by the MPRP. The Respondent shall fully, timely, and satisfactorily
cooperate and comply with all MPRP recommendations and requirements, including but
not limited to, the terms and conditions of any Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with the MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED the Respondent may petition the Board to lift the suspension of his
medical license, but only after MPRP advocates that the Respondent is safe to resume
the practice of clinical medicine; and it is further

ORDERED that on the termination of the Respondent’s suspension, Panel A or
the Board may impose additional terms and conditions including but not limited to
probation; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or

condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing

10
