 

shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show
cause hearing before the Board or Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or Disciplinary Panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of this
Consent Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel may reprimand the Respondent, place
the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or
revoke the Respondent's license to practice medicine in Maryland. The Board or
Disciplinary Panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with all laws governing the practice
of medicine under the Maryland Medical Practice Act and all rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order shall be a PUBLIC DOCUMENT pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Gen Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014 & 2016 Supp.).

je [13 [201 / ORustins A -
Christine A. Farrelly, Ex ve Direct
i s

 

Date
Maryland Board of Phys!

CONSENT

|, Surendra Kumar, M.D., License No. D32224, by affixing my signature hereto,
acknowledge that:

| am represented by counsel and have consulted with counsel before entering
into this Consent Order. By this Consent and for the sole purpose of resolving the
issues raised by the Board, | agree and accept to be bound by the foregoing Consent
Order and its conditions.

| acknowledge the validity of this Consent Order as if entered into after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which | would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf,

11
