dishonest intent.” Jd. at 462. The facts supporting Dr. Ajrawat’s convictions for the crimes of
obstruction of justice and aggravated identity theft establish that these convictions were for
conduct that was part and parcel of the health care fraud scheme that Dr. Ajrawat engaged in for
personal gain and with the intent to defraud. Under Maryland law, “‘it is settled that whatever
else [moral turpitude] may mean . . . a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element
is a crime involving moral turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of offenses involving
intentional dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude[.]”
Walman, 280 Md. at 459-60. See also Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. of Physicians, 162 Md.
App. 457, 486 (2005).

By using the actual name, insurance, and identification number of his patients in
conjunction with the health care fraud and wire fraud scheme, Dr. Ajrawat intended to defraud
and deceive government health programs in order to obtain monetary reimbursement to which he
was not entitled. His offenses were characterized by repeated deceit and intentional dishonesty
for purposes of his own personal gain. By hiring a shredding company to shred patient medical
records and discouraging his staff from cooperating with law enforcement, Dr. Ajrawat acted
deliberately to conceal critical information from criminal authorities and keep them in the dark
about his criminal billing activities. Dr. Ajrawat’s crimes were “intentional, or not innocent in
[their] purpose, or not accidental.” Board of Dental Exam’rs v. Lazzell, 172 Md. 314, 322
(1937). The facts underlying Dr. Ajrawat’s criminal convictions, therefore, also established
moral turpitude. Oltman, 162 Md. App. at 486.

Moreover, “in the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the
concept of moral turpitude is rather broad.” Jd. at 483. Panel A concludes that the totality of Dr.

Ajrawat’s criminal conduct undermines the public’s confidence in the medical profession. See
