7. On April 11, 2016, the U.S. District Court judge sentenced Dr. Ajrawat to a total term of
111 months imprisonment, three years of supervised probation upon release, and ordered
to immediately pay, in full, restitution in the amount of $3,103,874.58.

8. On April 20, 2016, Dr. Ajrawat noted an appeal, which is currently pending in the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A has considered all of the evidence before it and decides the legal issues as
follows:

The statutory text is clear that fraud is an essential element of at least three of the crimes
of which Dr. Ajrawat was convicted. Health care fraud includes the knowing and willful
execution of a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or to obtain money or property
of any health care benefit program by false or fraudulent pretenses.18 U.S.C. § 1347 (emphasis
added). False statements related to health care matters includes knowingly and willfully making
any materially fraudulent statements or representations, or knowingly using any document, in
connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, that contains any materially
false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement. 18 U.S.C. § 1035(a) (emphasis added). Finally, wire
fraud includes devising or intending to devise any scheme to defraud, or obtain money or
property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, by means of wire, radio, or television
communication in interstate or foreign commerce. 18 U.S.C. § 1343 (emphasis added), These
crimes committed by Dr. Ajrawat constitute moral turpitude per se, based solely on the elements
of the crimes.

When fraud is not an explicit element of the crime, the analysis of whether the crime
involves moral turpitude depends on the particular facts of each individual case. See Attorney
Grievance Comm’n of Mad. v. Walman, 280 Md. 453, 460 (1977). In considering the facts of the

case, the relevant consideration is whether the crime “was accompanied by a fraudulent or
