FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:

1. Dr. Ajrawat was initially licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland on July 8,
1985, and at all times relevant to the charges in this case, Dr. Ajrawat has held a license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.°

2. On June 10, 2015, the United States Attorney for the United States District Court for the
District of Maryland (“U.S. Attorney”) filed a second superseding criminal indictment’ in
the U.S. District Court charging Dr. Ajrawat with health care fraud, two counts of false
statements related to health care matters, obstruction of justice, four counts of wire fraud,
and four counts of aggravated identity theft.

3. The indictment alleged that Dr. Ajrawat and his wife*® owned and operated a pain
management clinic in Greenbelt, Maryland and, in the course of operating the practice,
defrauded several health care benefit programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The
allegations of fraud included billing for procedures that were not performed, submitting
claims for services that were not rendered in compliance with the submitted Current
Procedural Terminology (“CPT”)? codes, and billing for services that were not medically
necessary. The reimbursement payments were paid by the health care benefit programs
and deposited into the couple’s bank account through a wire transfer. The indictment
alleged that Dr. Ajrawat used the actual name, insurance, and identification number of his
patients in conjunction with the health care fraud and wire fraud scheme. When Dr.
Ajrawat and his wife found out that they were being investigated by federal law
enforcement agencies they hired a shredding company to shred patient medical records
and discouraged staff members from cooperating with law enforcement.

4. On July 28, 2015, Dr. Ajrawat entered a plea of not guilty on all counts of the second
superseding indictment.

5. A jury trial began on August 24, 2015 and concluded, after eight days of trial, on
September 2, 2016.

6. On September 4, 2016, the jury found Dr. Ajrawat guilty of health care fraud, two counts
of false statements related to health care matters, obstruction of justice, four counts of
wire fraud, and aggravated identity theft.

° Dr. Ajrawat’s license to practice medicine, license number D32506, expired on September 30, 2016. The Medical
Practice Act, however, precludes the lapse of a license “by operation of law while the individual is under
investigation or while charges are pending.” Health Occ. § 14-403(a). In this case, the Petition was mailed to Dr.
Ajrawat on September 22, 2016, before his license expired. Therefore, Dr. Ajrawat’s license was not permitted to
lapse while the charges in this case were pending.

7 Prior criminal indictments were filed on June 25, 2014 and March 4, 2015.

®Sukhveen Kaur Ajrawat, Dr. Ajrawat’s wife, was also indicted in this case. The charges against her, however, were
dismissed after she died on February 1, 2016.

° A CPT code is a number that refers to a specific medical service provided to a patient.

3
