Re.: Letter of Surrender
Bradley Harper, M.D.
February 17, 2017

Page 2 of 4

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. J also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in
any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by the Board.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my
original Maryland medical license, number D32772, any renewal wallet cards, and wall
certificate. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, J understand that Panel A or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if.I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked. I also understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the
burden of demonstrating my professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the
satisfaction of Panel A or its successor.
