Paul Prunier, M.D.

 

May zy, 2016

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D33246
Case Number: 2016-0123

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D33246, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in
the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Oce.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as
of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my
license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the
“Board’s”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B.

My decision to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
has been prompted by the Board’s investigation into allegations that I violated the
standard of quality care with regard to my prescribing practices. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current health issues and
planned retirement. If Panel B issued disciplinary charges and this case were to proceed
to a hearing, I agree that the State would be able to prove that I violated Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22). For purposes related to medical licensure, these
investigatory findings will be treated as if proven.
