Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Paul Prunier, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to
contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license in lieu of further disciplinary action under the Act. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board or Panel B to the same
extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license number D33246, and my most recent wallet-sized
renewal card. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical
records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement. I further understand that if I ever file
petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as
an individual whose license has been revoked. I also understand that if I apply for
reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my professional competence and fitness
to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel B or its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of the Panel B’s actions and this Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
