Paul Forst, M.D.

Mark D, Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Paul Forst, M.D., License Number: D33281
Case Number: 2222-0076

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §14-403
(2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, License Number D33281, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health
Occ, §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

1 understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, it becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board’),

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation into a complaint alleging that |
may have inappropriately prescribed controlled substances to a patient with whom I did not have
a treating relationship. Due to my planned retirement, I have decided to surrender my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation of these allegations. I
recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated
as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(22) and (40).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
