Damean Freas, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Kambiz Kazemi, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine) and (4) (is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand
that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

T understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
Jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that
this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and am represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.
