Kambiz Kazemi, M.D.

Date. HERR eEMET HI, Pod O

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4° Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Kambiz Kazemi, M.D.

License Number: D34098

Case Number: 2220-0109B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.’”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to permanently SURRENDER
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D34098,
effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give
medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the permanent surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging I entered into an
inappropriate relationship with a patient, and that the Board initiated an investigation.
During the investigation, the Board directed me to undergo a comprehensive medical
assessment, which concluded that due to health reasons | am not fit to practice medicine at
this time. On February 11, 2020, Panel B issued an Order for Summary Suspension of
License to Practice Medicine, which summarily suspended my medical license. A copy of
the Order for Summary Suspension is attached to this letter as “Attachment 1.” I have
decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
to resolve the summary suspension and avoid further investigation and prosecution of these
allegations.! 1 recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these

! Upon Panel B’s acceptance of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the Order for
Summary Suspension issued on February 11, 2020, is terminated as moot.
