electronic mail stating, “| am a parent attempting to get medical records for my children
from Dr. Lloyd Charles, Jr., license Number # D35602.” Parent A provided the names
and dates of birth of her two children. Parent A continued to state as follows:

The office is now physically closed and the number has been

disconnected. | have sent 2 emails to the address | have on file and have

received a general out of (sic) greeting or replies noted below. | am
requesting assistance as my children need the assistance of a Physician

per their regular appointments and for school purposes pediatricians need

their medical records.

7. On April 25, 2016, the Board sent a copy of the complaint to Respondent
by electronic mail.

8. On May 11, 2016, Parent A sent electronic mail to the Board stating that
she is “still requesting assistance on this matter.”

9. On May 16, 2016, the Board sent correspondence to Respondent by
regular mail at a residential address in Maryland® and a residential address in
Alabama’, providing him with a copy of the complaint from Parent A and requesting that
he provide a written response within ten business days.

10. | Respondent did not respond to this mail.

11. On June 22, 2016, the Board received a complaint from Parent B stating
as follows:

My wife and | have been trying to contact my daughters (sic) pediatrician,

Dr. Lloyd Charles, Jr. to recover her medical records because Dr. Charles

has closed his office without notice, disconnected the office phones, and

disappeared without leaving a forwarding address. The office has been
taken over by a different medical provider who told me that Charles had

 

? The name of the parents and children are confidential and are not used in the charging document.
Respondent has been provided with a copy of a Parent/Child Identification List.

° The Board obtained this address from the Maryland Judiciary Case Search. The board researched the
records of the Motor Vehicle Administration for an address for Respondent; however, Respondent does
not, at this time, have a drivers license.

“ The Board obtained this address from a real property search of the residential address in Maryland.
One of the owners of the Maryland residential property has a residential property in Alabama.
