Damean William Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Lloyd M. Charles, Jr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Furthermore, my license to practice medicine expired on September 30, 2016. I
voluntarily elected not to renew my license to practice medicine because I closed my
medical office in Spring 2016. The closure of my office contributed to some patients
having difficulty in locating me. I ultimately provided the immunization records to the
three parents who had filed complaints with the Board.

L have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this Letter of Surrender to
avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes
related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license as if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014),
and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

L affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license, number D35602, any renewal wallet cards, wall
certificate, and drug dispensing permit (if applicable). I also affirm that I will continue to
provide access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4,
subtitle 3 of the Health-General articie.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
