(a) knowingly converted to the Respondent’s use property, with the intention of depriving
the owner of its benefit or use; (b) the property belonged to the United States; and (c) the
property had a value greater than $1000,

15. According to the Plea Agreement, the Respondent and the United States
Attorney’s Office stipulated and agreed that a sentence of 37 months in the custody of the
Bureau of Prisons was the appropriate disposition in the case.

16. On December 7, 2018, the Respondent executed a Stipulation of Facts in
conjunction with the Plea Agreement, which stated the following:

Crystal Mebane McGinty (“MCGINTY”), age 58, is a resident of Silver
Spring, Maryland. At all times relevant, MCGINTY worked as a physician
at various practices in the State of Maryland and District of Columbia.

From in or around June 2005 through in or around June 2018, MCGINTY
engaged in a scheme to commit mail fraud and theft of government
property by means of materially false and fraudulent pretenses. In the
scheme, MCGINTY spent her deceased mother’s Social Security
Administration (“SSA”) Retirement Insurance Benefits (“RIB”) payments
and Teachers’ Retirement System of the City of New York (“TRSCNY”)
pension payments and failed to disclose and concealed her mother’s death
from SSA and TRSCNY, in part, by posing as her deceased mother.

MCGINTY’S mother, D.M., died on or about June 17, 2005, and her death
certificate names MCGINTY as the informant. In or about the year 2016,
SSA suspected that D.M. was deceased, but was still receiving RIB
payments by direct deposit into an account titled in the names of
MCGINTY, D.M., and D.M.’s deceased husband, R.M.

On or about January 9, 2017, agents of SSA’s Office of Inspector General
met with MCGINTY at the health clinic at which she worked. MCGINTY
was evasive in responding to questions regarding whether her mother was
alive, and ultimately falsely stated that her mother was alive, “as far as she
[knew].” MCGINTY acknowledged that she used the joint account into
which SSA benefits were deposited, but falsely denied spending any of
D.M.’s SSA benefits. .MCGINTY admitted that she received and
