D.M.’s SSA benefits. _MCGINTY admitted that she received and
purposefully failed to respond to SSA notices mailed to her address
requesting that she contact SSA.

Agents learned through their investigation that MCGINTY was also
depositing her mother’s TRSCNY pension checks into the joint checking
account, which were sent to MGINTY’S home each month by United
States Mail. Before depositing the checks, MCGINTY endorsed the checks
as herself, and then countersigned them as D.M.

TRSCNY records show that MCGINTY submitted to TRSCNY several
“proof of life” forms, from 2012 to 2017, attesting that D.M. was still alive,
and on which MGINTY forged D.M.’s signature, and also signed the
documents as D.M.’s attesting physician. TRSCNY records also indicate
that on or about May 31, 2016, MCGINTY contacted the TRSCNY
customer service hotline and identified herself as D.M., and provided
D.M.’s partial social security number and date of birth for identification
purposes. MCGINTY contacted TRSCNY because it had ceased mailing
D.M.’s pension checks, and MCGINTY sought to have the payments
reinstated.

In total, MCGINTY spent approximately $304,000 in funds belonging to

TRSCNY and $213,000 in funds belonging to SSA. MCGINTY often

withdrew the funds as cash or transferred them to her personal accounts

each month, and also spent the funds on expenses such as the mortgage and

utilities for her Silver Spring home, renewal of her medical license,

department store purchases, expenses associated with a cruise for a family
vacation, purchases during a trip to the island of St. Thomas, and tuition for
private schools for her children.

16. Onor about December 13, 2018, the Respondent, accompanied by counsel,
appeared at the Board-approved Program for intake, pursuant to the Board’s referral for
an appropriate examination under Health Occ. § 14-402, and the Board’s notice sent to
the Respondent on December 5, 2018.

17. On or about December 14, 2018, the Program Director notified the Board

that based on interactions with the Respondent and her counsel, the Program was unable

to undertake a comprehensive evaluation of the Respondent. The Program did provide
