13. By letter dated December 5, 2018, the Board, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-
402," referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an
evaluation. Based on § 14-402(c), the Board’s notice advised the Respondent that
“unreasonable failure or refusal to submit to examination is prima facie evidence of a
licensed medical practitioner’s inability to practice medicine, unless the Board finds that
the failure or refusal was beyond the control of the individual.”

14. On December 7, 2018, the Respondent entered into a plea agreement (“Plea
Agreement”) with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Maryland.
Pursuant to the Plea Agreement, the Respondent agreed to enter pleas of guilty to: Count
One of the above Indictment, Mail Fraud, that on or about the time alleged in the
Indictment, the Respondent (a) devised or intended to devise a scheme to defraud; and (b)
used the mail for the purpose of executing, or attempting to execute, the scheme, in
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1341; and Count Two of the above Indictment, Theft of

Government Property, that on or about the time alleged in the Indictment, the Respondent

4 Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or
in investigation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board
under this title, the Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its
own initiative may direct, any physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this
title to submit to an appropriate examination.

Health Occ. § 14-402(b) states: In return for the privilege given by the State issuing a license,
certification, or registration, the licensed, certified, or registered individual is deemed to have: (1)
Consented to submit to an examination under this section, if requested by the Board in writing; and (2)
Waived any claim of privilege as to the testimony or examination reports

Health Occ. § 14-402(c) states: The unreasonable failure or refusal of the licensed, certified, or
registered individual to submit to an examination is prima facie evidence of the licensed, certified, or
registered individual's inability to practice medicine or the tespective discipline competently, unless the
Board finds that the failure or refusal was beyond the contro! of the license, certified, or registered
individual.
