 

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Mark D. Noar, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

as Attachment 1. I have decided to permanently surrender my license in the State of Maryland! to
avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. |
acknowledge that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure in Maryland, that the charges will
be treated as proven.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right
to a formal evidentiary hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest
the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. 1 also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board (o the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§
4-101 et seg. (2019 Repl. Vol.), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel B.

{affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, | agree that | have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that 1 may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or in ils
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, ] wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B,
including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender.
I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before
signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland.
1 understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. |
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

' Upon Panel B's acceptance of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, | acknowledge that the Order for Summary
Suspension issued on May 10, 2019 and reaffirmed on May 23, 2019, is terminated as moot.
