Howard S. Hessan, M.D.

Date. APTil 7, 2022 —
Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair

Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4” Fioor

Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Howard S. Hessan, M.D. License Number: D3647]
Case Number: 2222-0069

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

‘Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §14-403
(2021 Repl..Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, License Number D36471, effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender
of my. license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health
Oce. §§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, it becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

1 acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice, based on a
complaint that alleged that I may have health issues affecting my ability to practice medicine
safely. Due to my current health condition and retirement, | have decided to surrender my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation of these allegations.
I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be
treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. §
14-404(a) (4).

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
