Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair and Member of Disciplinary Pane! B
RE: Howard S. Hessan, M.D.

’ Letter of Surrender

Page 2

of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s
investigative. findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which 1 would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
other substantive and procedural Protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit coutt.

ot ‘understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event 1
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state dr jutisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the ‘same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code‘Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.

(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action
by Panel B.

T-affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. 1 also agree to surrender my

Controlled Dangerous Substance’ Registration to the Office of Controlléd Substances
Administration, -

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. 1 further understand that if I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that 1 have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand
and comprehend the language, meaning and terms, and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

Howard S. Hessan WL.D.
