Damean W. E. Freas, D,.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Krishan Singal, M.D., License Number: D36900
Case Number: 7722-0066B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”) §
14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D36900, effective
immediately. I understand that wpon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 er
seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

[understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”.

I acknowledge that on February 24, 2022, Panel B issued a Final Decision and
Order (the “Order”) in which it found that I was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), Pursuant to the
Order, Panel B reprimanded me, placed me on probation for a minimum period of two
years and referred me to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”).
MPRP referred me for a comprehensive evaluation with a specialist in behavioral issues
and unprofessional conduct. The evaluation did not endorse my practice of medicine and
recommended that I enter an in-patient program for a more in-depth assessment of my
professional boundary violations. MPRP recommended three MPRP-approved programs
for this purpose. I did not attend those programs, As a result, Panel B issued an Order
for Summary Suspension on October 12, 2022, in which it suspended my Maryland
medical license. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of the
allegations regarding my competency to practice medicine. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ, §
14-404(a)(4)(Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent).

 
