Date: 0 9 | [O [2020

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O,, Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Adela A. Navarro, M.D. License Number: D36991
Case Number: 2219-0074B

Dear Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ,”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D36991, effective
immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq,
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

T understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on May
13, 2020, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(22) and (40). Specifically, Panel B alleged that I failed to meet the standard of
quality care in one gynecological surgical case and failed to maintain adequate medical
records in a separate gynecological surgical case. A copy of the charges is attached as
Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I have retired from the practice of medicine as of March 2019 and to
avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges,

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. 1

acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will be treated
as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I
