Damean W. E. Freas, D.O, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Krishan Singal, M.D,

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I wish to make it clear that [ have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court,

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2019 Repl. Vol. & 2021 Supp.),
and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I
understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation
of the profession. I further understand that if] ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever, Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with and was represented by an
attomey prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice
medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully, I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make
this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

 

 
