initial visit. [Patient A] would testify that in exchange for $300 she received
narcotics prescriptions from Dr, Babaturk.

[Patient A] would also confirm under oath that on January 16", 2016, in
Harford County, Dr, Babaturk issued her two prescriptions. One. was for a
fentanyl patch 100mg, which is what’s under indictment Count 7 and 18. She also
received a prescription for oxycodone 30mg, 120-count. Both of which she later
filled at a local pharmacy. Both fentanyl and oxycodone are Schedule II
controlled dangerous substances. {Patient A] would testify that the defendant
issued the narcotic prescriptions to her without conducting any sort of medical
evaluation, testing, or monitoring.

Finally, the State would call (“Individual B”) who is the State’s expert
witness, [Individual B] is the founder and director of (“Facility A”) in Maryland.
He’s been practicing pain medicine for several decades. He is certified, Board
Certified in anesthesiology and has a subspecialty certification in pain medicine.
[Individual B] would testify that he was retained by the State to review the police
investigation of Dr. Babaturk, including all documents that were recovered from
the search and seizure warrant.

[Individual B] would testify that the defendant ignored all aspects of
practicing medicine when he prescribed CDS to {Patient A] and other patients. He
would testify that Dr. Babaturk failed to properly evaluate [Patient A], including
obtaining prior medical records, reviewing those records, performing physical
examinations, coming up with a diagnosis and treatment plan in order to justify
the initial prescribing of the controlled dangerous substance. He would also testify
that after Dr. Babaturk started prescribing, he ignored all safeguards required by
the standard of care, including periodic monitoring using urine drug screens or
pill counts to monitor patient’s use of narcotics. There should have been an opioid
agreement including the exact locations of when [Patientl A] would fill those —
when and where [Patient A] would fill those prescriptions. There were improper

informed consents. There were no evaluations of [Patient A] to determine
progress.

Finally, [Individual B] would testify that, within a reasonable degree of
medical certainty, Dr. Babaturk prescribed controlled dangerous substances,
including fentany! patches 100mg, to [Patient A] on January 16", 2016 that were
not for legitimate medical purposes and were outside the bounds of medical
practice.

On November 7, 2018; the Circuit Court Judge accepted Dr. Babaturk’s plea of
guilty and found him guilty on Count 7, Distribution of a Controlled Dangerous
Substance, and Count 18, Unlawful Prescription of a Controlled Dangerous
Substance by Provider. . :
