? Section 5-602 of the Criminal Law Article provides, in pertinent part: “Except as otherwise provided in this title, a

On November 7, 2018, Dr. Babaturk entered a plea of guilty to one count of
Distribution of a Controlled Dangerous Substance (Fentanyl), in violation of
Maryland Code Ann., Crim. Law § 5-602,? and one count of Unlawful
Prescription of a Controlled Dangerous Substance by Provider (Fentanyl), in
violation of Maryland Code Ann., Crim. Law § 5-902(c).? The remaining counts
were nolle prossed. During the plea hearing, the Assistant Attorney General
recited the following facts in support of the plea:

With respect to Count 7 and Count 18 of the indictment, if this matter
were to go to trial, the State would call detectives from the Baltimore County
Police Department who would testify that between October and November 2015,
they received numerous complaints from pharmacists in the Harford and
Baltimore County area complaining about Dr. Babaturk’s prescribing. They
would testify that between October and January — October of 2015 to January
2016 they conducted surveillance of Dr. Babaturk. The State would offer the
surveillance tape footage into evidence which showed that, between that time, Dr.
Babaturk drove around in his SUV to various locations to meet purported clients
and to provide narcotic prescriptions for approximately $250 in cash,

1n February of 2016, Baltimore County, as well as Harford County Police
Department, conducted a search and seizure warrant on Dr. Babaturk’s residence.

They recovered numerous documents, composition books, notepads, and other
miscellaneous documents.

The State would call one of Dr. Babaturk’s patients (“Patient A”)...
[Patient A] would testify that she met Dr. Babaturk in January of 2015 at her
house where she was seeking treatment for chronic back pain that she had.
{Patient A] would testify that she had seen numerous physicians previously.
{Patient A] offered Dr, Babaturk her prior medical records. Dr. Babaturk refused
to see them, Dr, Babaturk was, in fact, flirting with her roommate during that

person may not: (1) distribute or dispense a controlled dangerous substance[.]”

> Section 5-902 of the Criminal Law Article provides, in pertinent part:

(c) An authorized provider may not prescribe, administer, manufacture, distribute, dispense, or possess a controlled

dangerous substance, drug paraphernalia, or controiled paraphernalia except:

()

“ For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and facilities involved in this case are not

(1) in the course of regular professional! duties; and

(2) in conformity with this title and the standards of the authorized provider's profession relating to

controlled dangerous.substances, drug paraphernalia, or controlled paraphernalia.
OK

(1) If the trier of fact specifically finds that a person has knowingly or intentionally violated this section,
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 2 years

or a fine not exceeding $100,000 or both.

(2) In all other cases, a person who violates this section is subject to a civil penalty not exceeding $50,000.

disclosed in this document. Dr. Babaturk is aware of the identity of Patient A, Individual B, and Facility A.
