turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation of a license on the
certification by the Office of the Attorney General.

Attached to the Petition were certified copies of the indictment, case summary with docket
entries, transcript of proceedings, and commitment record and a show cause order mandating that
Dr. Babaturk show cause in writing, on or before November 6, 2019, if there was any reason
why his license to practice medicine should not be revoked. On November 6, 2019, the Board
received a fax from Dr. Babaturk stating that he would like to defend himself “and leave ali
options open including court.” To the extent that Dr. Babaturk’s request to defend himself may
be interpreted as a request for a hearing, Panel A declines to grant Dr. Babaturk’s request for a
hearing pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(3), which states that the Panel’s decision on whether
_ to grant a hearing is discretionary based on the existence of genuine issues of material facts or

law,

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel A issues this Final

Decision and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:

lL. Dr. Babaturk was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on October 24, 1988, having been issued License Number D37592, Dr,
Babaturk’s licensed expired September 30, 2016.

2. On July 25, 2017, Dr. Babaturk was indicted in the Circuit Court for Harford
County in State of Maryland v. Hasan H. Babaturk, case number 12-K-17-
001101, on ten counts of Distribution of Controlled Dangerous Substances, ten
counts of Unlawful Prescription of Controlled Dangerous Substances by Provider,
and one count of Keeping a Common Nuisance.

' Pursuant to Section 14-403 of the Health Occupations Article, the license of an individual regulated by the Board
“may [not] lapse by operation of law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” Md.
Code. Ann., Health Occ. § 14-403(a). Dr. Babaturk’s license was summarily suspended on February 25, 2016 and
charges were pending; therefore, the Board retained its jurisdiction over Dr. Babaturk’s license.
