Dr. Babaturk did not present any evidence or argument to address any of the limited
issues that were permitted to be raised in the response. See COMAR 10,32.02.07E(2).
Consideration of any mitigating factors is prohibited by the Board’s regulations and the
underlying convictions cannot be collaterally attacked before the Board. See COMAR
10.32.02.07E(2)(d); Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 487 (2005)
(“[A]ppellant cannot now collaterally attack the conclusive final judgment of the criminal court
in his case. ... To the contrary, the . . . court’s final judgment is conclusive proof of [appellant’s]
guilt of the crime charged,”) (internal quotation marks and citations omitted). This aligns with
the intent of the statute to “direct[] summary treatment of a charge based on the conviction of a
crime involving moral’ turpitude[.|” Maryland Board of Physician Quality Assurance vy.
Felsenberg, 351 Md. 288, 304 (1998). The only issue for Panel A to resolve, therefore, is
whether distribution of CDS and prescribing CDS not in the course of regular professional duties
and not in conformance with Title 5 of the Criminal Law Article and the standards of the
authorized provider’s profession are crimes involving moral turpitude.

Although violations of the Maryland Controlled Substances Act “will ordinarily involve
moral turpitude, each case must be decided on its own facts.” Attorney Grievance Comm’n of
Maryland v. Proctor, 309 Md. 412, 419 (1987) (holding that possession of marijuana with intent
to distribute is a crime of moral turpitude). Through his guilty plea, Dr. Babaturk admitted to
knowingly and intentionally issuing prescriptions for and distributing CDS not in accordance
with his regular professional duties and outside of the standards of the medical profession. Dr.
Babaturk’s conduct was not just outside of the acceptable standards of medical practice; it was

, illegal and constituted a crime of moral turpitude. The Maryland Court of Appeals has defined

moral turpitude as “importing an act of baseness, vileness or depravity in the private and social
