duties which a man owes to his fellow men, or to society in general, contrary to the accepted and
customary rule of right and duty between man and man.” Attorney Grievance Comm'n of Md. v.
Walman, 280 Md. 453, 459 (1977) (internal quotation marks omitted).

Health Occ. §14-404(b)(2), gives explicit authority. to a disciplinary panel to determine
what types of crimes are crimes of moral turpitude for licensing and disciplinary purposes,
“(Moral turpitude” is more broadly defined with respect to Board licensure and discipline than
in a witness impeachment context. See Ricketts v, State, 291 Md. 701, 711-12 (1981) (“[W]hat
constitutes a crime of moral turpitude may involve different considerations compelling different
results in different circumstances.”); Oltman, 162 Md. App. at 483 (“in the context of a licensing
board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the concent of moral turpitude is rather broad.”). In
that context, the term moral turpitude “strikes the broader chord of public confidence in the
administration of government. That is, a person who has credibility to testify [at trial] may not
have the public’s confidence to practice certain professions[.]” Stidwell v. Maryland State Bd. of
’ Chiropractic Exam’rs, 144 Md. App. 613, 619 (2002). ‘

In prescribing and distributing fentanyl outside of the standards of the medical
profession, Dr. Babaturk’s criminal conduct showed such disregard for social norms and the
ethical standards of the medical profession that he undermined the public’s confidence in the
profession. See Stidwell, 144 Md. App. at 619 (a criminal offense that undermines the public’s
confidence in a profession may be a crime of moral turpitude if determined by the appropriate
licensing board). In the Panel’s view, Dr. Babaturk acted “contrary to the accepted and
customary rule of right and duty” that he owes to his fellow citizens. in the State of Maryland

and, as such, his convictions constituted crimes involving moral turpitude. Walman, 280 Md. at

459.
