Program Assessment and Report
_L._Medical Knowledge and Patient Care

The Report consisted of Assessment Findings and Educational Recommendations by
physician consultants regarding patient care based on Dr. Mathur’s performance during the
Assessment process, which was personalized to ensure that it reflected Dr. Mathur’s practice of
general medicine. The findings demonstrated broad-based gaps and areas in which Dr. Mathur’s
medical knowledge was outdated and lacked depth. The Program consultants identified Dr.
Mathur’s extensive educational needs in internal medicine, chronic pain management,
cardiology, pulmonology,. infectious diseases, neurology, endocrinology, gastroenterology,
mental health, urology, hematology, routine health maintenance, and geriatrics.

For example, in cardiology, Dr. Mathur was asked to provide descriptions, interpretations,
and course of action for ten ECG tracings representing various cardiac conditions. His responses
were considered within the context of his general medicine practice and revealed that he did not
have a logical scheme to evaluate ECGs and his treatment plans were incorrect due to his
incorrect interpretation. He identified only one of five tracings where infarct (tissue death) or
ischemia (inadequate blood flow) was the cause of the pattern. He did not describe multiple types
of cardiac abnormalities and conduction system disorders on several tracings, did not consider
pericarditis in one tracing, and failed to identify atrial fibrillation’ on another tracing. Overall, the
consulting examiners concluded that Dr. Mathur’s plans were incorrect for nine tracings, he did
not demonstrate adequate ability to interpret ECGs, and his performance on the written ECG

interpretation exercise was poor and required remediation.

’ Pericarditis is swelling and inflammation of the thin tissue surrounding the heart. Atrial fibrillation is a
common type of heart arrhythmia, which can cause the heart to beat too quickly, too slowly, or irregularly.

 
