The standard of care requires that a physician is held to that degree and skill expected of
a reasonably competent physician in the same class acting in the same or similar circumstances.
See Shilkret v. Annapolis Emergency Hospital Association, 276 Md. 187, 200 (1975). The
Respondent’s main argument is that there was insufficient expert testimony to support a finding
of a standard of care violation for seven out of 10 patients, contending that both peer reviewers
did not find a standard of care violation for three of the patients and they disagreed on four other
patients. There is merit to the Respondent’s exception that a standard of care violation is not
indicated for his treatment of most of the patients at issue. The Panel thus finds a violation of the
standard of care concerning only Patients 1 and 9, as explained later in this decision. But, as
already stated, standard of care issues were not the driving force in this case.

The Respondent also argues on exceptions that the ALJ improperly failed to give any
weight to records the Respondent produced in response to the peer reviewer reports. The Panel
does not accept this exception. There are several serious concerns about these records and other
records of the Respondent which were his exhibits and admitted into evidence. First, many of
these documents were not included in the documents the Respondent, in March and July 2015,
produced and certified were all of the records in his possession concerning the patients at issue.
Regarding Patients 1-8, the Respondent twice certified he was producing all of the records in his
possession. Yet, numerous records he later produced concerning these patients were not included
in the first two productions. Second, there is no question that the Respondent wrote many of
these documents long after the services were provided or purportedly provided. The
Respondent’s exceptions state, “Respondent reformatted the original patient records from the
original format his office used.” One document (Resp. Ex. 7 at 304) purports to record the

results of a SPT for Patient 4 from July 11, 2011. But there is another form recording the results

23
