Concerning Patient 1, according to the experts for the State, the Respondent’s repeated
unnecessary testing violated the standard of care. The Panel accepts the testimony of the experts.

Concerning Patient 9, the State’s experts agreed that the Respondent’s excessive and
unnecessary testing violated the standard of care. The Panel agrees with the State’s experts.

Based on the above findings, with respect to Patients 1 and 9, the Respondent failed to
meet the appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of
quality medical care performed in this State, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22).
V. FAILURE TO KEEP ADEQUATE RECORDS

The State’s experts often considered the lack of documentation for testing which the
Respondent billed to be both a violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40) (failure to keep adequate
records) and Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct). In many cases, the lack of
documentation helped demonstrate that the Respondent billed for testing that he did not perform.
The Panel considers these instances unprofessional conduct, as opposed to failure to keep
adequate records. There were, however, several instances in which the Respondent’s records
clearly demonstrate a straightforward recordkeeping violation, under of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(40).

The Respondent failed to document an adequate history of Patient 1’s asthma and food
allergies. The Respondent did not record medications, symptoms, triggers, onset, or frequency.
The Respondent disputes that there was not a full history of the patient’s asthma and points to
paragraph 11 of the ALJ’s findings of fact, but this paragraph appears to concern the patient’s
seasonal allergies, not asthma. The Respondent also refers in general to his progress notes, but,
again, the Panel cannot identify the necessary history specific to asthma, as opposed to the

seasonal allergies. Additionally, the Respondent billed $2640 for 264 allergens on six occasions,

36
