patients were chosen randomly by the Board investigators. On March 9, 2015, the Board
received records pertaining to eight patients (Patients 1-8) with a certification signed, on March
2, 2015, by the Respondent for each of the eight patients stating that he provided the Board with
the “complete medical records which include all records pertaining to the care and treatment of
the patient . . . in [the Respondent’s] possession.” (Emphasis omitted.) The Respondent also
provided a written summary of his care for each of these patients.

On July 13, 2015, the Board sent another subpoena to the Respondent for the records of
two additional patients (Patients 9 and 10).

On July 23, 2015, the Respondent met with Board investigators for an interview, where
it became apparent that the Respondent had not submitted all of the patient records he possessed
for the patients at issue. Thus, on July 24, 2015, the Board requested the full and complete
records of all of the patients whose records were requested as part of the investigation.

From July 27, 2015, through July 30, 2015, the Respondent piecemeal provided the
Board with additional records of Patients 1-8 and records of Patients 9 and 10 with a certification
signed, on July 27, 2015, by the Respondent for each patient stating again that he has provided
the “complete medical records which include all records pertaining to the care and treatment of
the patient . . . in [the Respondent’s] possession.” (Emphasis omitted.) The Respondent also
provided a written summary of his treatment for each of the 10 patients.

Two peer reviewers, Dr. Jani and Dr. Drelich, were forwarded the records for a review of
the Respondent’s practice. The two peer reviewers wrote reports on his practice based on the
records of the 10 patients whose records were obtained. Their peer review reports are both dated
February 29, 2016. Each peer reviewer found that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional

conduct in the practice of medicine, grossly overutilized health care services, failed to meet the
