On January 27, 2017, the ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order based upon the OAH
proceedings described above. The ALJ proposed that the Panel find Dr. Adams in default, adopt
as fact the statements set out in the allegations of fact section of the charges, conclude as a matter
of law that Dr. Adams violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) and (33) in the manner set forth in
the charges, and revoke Dr. Adams’s license to practice medicine.

On January 27, 2017, the ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Dr. Adams
at his Maryland and Pennsylvania addresses, the administrative prosecutor, and the Board. The
proposed decision notified the parties that they may file written exceptions to the proposed
decision but must do so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed Default Order. The Proposed
Default Order stated that any exceptions and request for a hearing must be sent to the Board with
attention to the Board’s Executive Director. Neither party filed exceptions.

The case came before Board Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) for final disposition.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel B concludes that Dr. Adams has defaulted, the following findings of fact
are adopted from the allegations of fact set forth in the September 2, 2016 Amended Charges
Under the Maryland Medical Practice Act and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the
evidence:

Dr. Adams was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on April 11, 1990. His
license expired on September 30, 2016.?

[Dr. Adams]’s specialty is family medicine. He is board certified. [Dr.
Adams] has hospital privileges at Hospital A. At all times relevant, [Dr. Adams]

> Pursuant to section 14-403 of the Health Occupations Article, the license of an individual regulated by the Board
may not “lapse by operation of law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” The
Board’s investigation and issuance of charges occurred before the expiration of Dr. Adams’s license. Therefore, by
operation of law, Dr. Adams’s license was not permitted to expire during these proceedings.
