15 minutes for Dr. Adams to appear, the Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) proceeded with the
scheduling conference in Dr. Adams’s absence. COMAR 28.02.01.23A. During the scheduling
conference, a prehearing conference was scheduled for January 9, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. at OAH.
COMAR 28.02.01.17.

On December 8, 2016, OAH mailed a Notice of In-Person Prehearing Conference (Notice
of Prehearing Conference) to each party at their respective addresses of record.2 The Notice of
Prehearing Conference mailed to Dr. Adams was not returned to OAH by the U.S. Postal
Service. The Notice of Prehearing Conference informed the parties of the date, time, and location
of the prehearing conference and enclosed instructions directing each party to prepare and submit
a prehearing statement in advance of the Prehearing Conference. Further, the Notice of
Prehearing Conference informed the parties that failure to attend the January 9, 2017 prehearing
conference could result in a decision against the party for failing to appear.

Separately, on December 7, 2016, a scheduling order notifying the parties of the date,
time, and location of the prehearing conference was mailed to each party at their respective
addresses of record. The copy of the scheduling order was mailed to Dr. Adams at his Maryland
and Pennsylvania addresses and neither copy was returned to OAH by the U.S. postal service.
Dr. Adams did not request a postponement of the prehearing conference nor did he submit a
prehearing statement in advance of the prehearing conference, as instructed.

Dr. Adams did not appear for the January 9, 2017 prehearing conference and no one
appeared or contacted OAH on his behalf. After waiting more than fifteen minutes for Dr.
Adams to appear, the ALJ commenced the prehearing conference in his absence. The State,
represented by the administrative prosecutor, moved for a default judgment against Dr. Adams

2 Because the notice for the scheduling conference sent to the Maryland address was returned as undeliverable, the
Notice of Prehearing Conference was only sent to the Pennsylvania address.
