& 2018 Supp.). Specifically, Panel A alleged that I committed unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine when I prescribed controlled dangerous
substances (CDS) to others but ingested them myself, and that I habitually abused
CDS. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 2. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further
prosecution of these disciplinary charges and to resolve the summary suspension.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges and to resolve the summary suspension. I acknowledge that for purposes
related to medical licensure matters, that the charges will be treated as proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to
contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the
hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own
behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards, and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other
state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by
the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary
action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that
this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender,
my license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License,
I understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement;
and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the
disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the
integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I file a
petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in

its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have
been advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout

2

 
