Damean W.E.Freas., D.O., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: June E, Breiner, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

years and required that I comply with certain terms and conditions. These terms and
conditions permanently prohibited me from prescribing and dispensing all opioids,
required that I provide the Board with an affidavit verifying that I have not prescribed any
opioids in the past year on every January 31st if I hold a Maryland medical license, and
required that I take and successfully complete courses in the appropriate prescribing of
CDS and medical record-keeping within six (6) months of the effective date of the
Consent Order, or by January 12, 2023. A copy of the Consent Order is attached.

I acknowledge that I failed to complete the required courses prior to January 12,
2023. Additionally, I acknowledge that on July 13, 2022 and on October 27, 2022, the:
Board sent me correspondence advising me of the Consent Order’s course requirements
along with a Board-approved course list including the course due date.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I have retired from medical practice and to avoid Prosecution for,
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am’
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court. .

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a.
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,-Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

I affirm that I have already provided access to and copies of patient medical
records to my patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. :
I also agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office
of Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants.
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I
understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
