ORDERED that the Respondent is permanently prohibited from prescribing and
dispensing all opioids. Additionally, the following terms apply:
l.a. On every January 31st thereafter, if the Respondent holds a Maryland medical

license, the Respondent shall provide the Board with an affidavit verifying that the
Respondent has not prescribed any opioids in the past year; ,

 

l.b. If the Respondent fails to provide the required annual verification of compliance
with this condition:

(1) there is a presumption that the Respondent has violated the permanent condition; and
(2) the alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of a Show Cause
Hearing;

2.a. The Respondent is permanently prohibited from certifying patients for the medical
use of cannabis;

2.b. On every January 31st thereafter, if the Respondent holds a Maryland medical
license, the Respondent shall provide the Board with an affidavit verifying that the
Respondent has not certified patients for the medical use of cannabis in the past year;

2.c. If the Respondent fails to provide the required annual verification of compliance
with this condition:

(1) there is a presumption that the Respondent has violated the permanent condition; and
(2) the alleged violation will be adjudicated pursuant to the procedures of a Show Cause
Hearing.

3. The Respondent agrees that the CDS Registration issued by the Office of
Controlled Substances Administration will be restricted to the same categories of CDS as
limited by this Order;

4. The Respondent shall not delegate the prescribing of opioids to another health care
professional, and any delegation agreement with a physician assistant shall be modified so
that the delegation does not include the prescribing or dispensing of opioids;

5. The disciplinary panel may issue administrative subpoenas to the Maryland
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program on a quarterly basis for the Respondent’s CDS
prescriptions. The administrative subpoenas will request the Respondent’s CDS
prescriptions from the beginning of each quarter; and it is further
