Opinion 8.19 - Self-treatment or Treatment of Immediate Family Members

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their immediate families.
Professional objectivity may be compromised when an immediate family member or the
physician is the patient; the physician's personal feelings may unduly influence his or her
professional medical judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered.
Physicians may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical history or may fail
to perform intimate parts of the physical examination... When treating themselves or
immediate family members, physicians may be inclined to treat problems that are beyond
their expertise or training.

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant when
physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family members may be
reluctant to state their preferences for another physician or decline a recommendation for
fear of offending the physician...

Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write prescriptions for
controlled substances for themselves or immediate family members.

ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!

 

Panel A bases its Charges on the following facts it has reason to believe are true:

BACKGROUND

I. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent has been licensed to practice medicine
in Maryland. The Respondent was initially licensed to practice medicine in
Maryland on June 27, 1990. His license is scheduled to expire on September 30,
2019.

2. At all times relevant, the Respondent has practiced out of his home office, located

at 6916 Rannoch Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, and focuses on research and

 

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the basis
of the Charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete description of the evidence,
either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with this matter.
