JOINT COMMISSION SENTINEL EVENT ALERT, 2008
On July 9, 2008, The Joint Commission issued a Sentinel Event alert entitled
“Behaviors that Undermine a Culture of Safety,” which stated in pertinent part:

Intimidating and disruptive behaviors can foster medical errors .. . contribute
to poor patient satisfaction and to preventable adverse outcomes . . . increase
the cost of care . . . and cause qualified clinicians, administrators and
managers to seek new positions in more professional environments . . . Safety
and quality of patient care is dependent on teamwork, communication, and a
collaborative work environment. To assure quality and to promote a culture
of safety, health care organizations must address the problem of behaviors
that threaten the performance of the health care team.

Intimidating and disruptive behaviors include overt actions such as verbal
outbursts and physical threats, as well as passive activities such as refusing
to perform assigned tasks or quietly exhibiting uncooperative attitudes during
routine activities. Intimidating and disruptive behaviors are often manifested
by health care professionals in positions of power. Such behaviors include
reluctance or refusal to answer questions, return phone calls or pages;
condescending language or voice intonation; and impatience with questions
. . . Overt and passive behaviors undermine team effectiveness and can
compromise the safety of patients . . . All intimidating and disruptive
behaviors are unprofessional and should not be tolerated. !:?

AMA OPINION 9.045, JUNE 2000
AMA Opinion 9.045, entitled, Physicians with Disruptive Behavior, adopted in

June 2000, states in pertinent part:

(1) _ Personal conduct, whether verbal or physical, that negatively affects
or that potentially may negatively affect patient care constitutes
disruptive behavior. (This includes but is not limited to conduct that

‘Yn 2011, The Joint Commission revised the term “disruptive behavior” to “behavior or behaviors
that undermine a culture of safety.”

2 In 2016, The Joint Commission noted that “while the term ‘unprofessional behavior’ is preferred
instead of ‘disruptive behavior;’ the suggested actions in this alert remain relevant.”

2
