Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Christian Evans, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order. I
acknowledge that the Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order
of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required
to comply with the conditions of the Order as long as I do not have or possess a medical
license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree
to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of
Controlled Substances Administration.

I understand and agree that under this Letter of Surrender my license will remain
surrendered for a minimum of three (3) years and until the Board or a disciplinary panel
of the Board grants the reinstatement of my Maryland medical license. In the event that I
apply for reinstatement of my Maryland medical license, I understand and agree that the
Board or disciplinary panel is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant
reinstatement, the Board or disciplinary panel will impose terms and conditions in
conformity with or in addition to those set forth in the Consent Order. I also understand
and agree that the Board or disciplinary panel will not consider my application for
reinstatement until the fine imposed under the Consent Order is paid in full. I further
understand and agree that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach the Board
or disciplinary panel in the same position as an individual whose license has been
revoked. ‘
