 

Karen Johansen, M.D.

Date:_ 5 [1 li 8
Dr. Damean W. E. Freas, Chair
Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Karen Johansen, M.D. License Number: D41221
Case Number: 2218-0095

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II (“Health Occ. II’) §
14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D41221, effective immediately. I understand
that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual,
with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the
practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice
Act (the “Act’), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of
the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means
that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received information that I withdrew my Oregon Medical
Board application for licensure while under investigation regarding my suspension and
subsequent loss of privileges from the Portland Veterans Administration due to quality of care
issues. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to
avoid further investigation of these allegations and due to my current health condition. I
recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated
as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that, J violated Health Occ. II § 14-
404(a)(22) (fails to meet the appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical care).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
