Karen Johansen, M.D.
Letter of Surrender
Page 2

witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by
law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in
any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter
of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity
and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel-B or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel B, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and
willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering
my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions
and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language,
meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and
voluntarily.

Very truly yours. .
Signature on File

aren Johansen, M.D.

NOTARY

STATE OF Gregen
CITY/COUNTYOF pred fnercce 4

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this ial day of Mae, , 2018 before me, a Notary
Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Karén Johansen, M.D., and declared

and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was
voluntary.
