Enrique Daza Racines
Date: (\\ (25) 09)
Mark D. Olszyk, Chair
Disciplinary Panel A
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Enrique Daza Racines, M.D. License Number: D42181
Case Number: 2221-0030

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D42181, effective
immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report from a hospital
stating that I resigned my privileges after initiation of a 30-day suspension for deficiencies
in patient evaluation in documentation, including documentation indicating that I had
performed physical examinations when I had not seen or physically examined the patient.
The Board began an investigation into the allegations. I have decided to surrender my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and
prosecution of these allegations and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes
relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these
allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (3ii)
(unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine) and (11) (willfully makes or files a
false report or record in the practice of medicine).
