Joseph C. Randall, Jr., M.D.

 

July 13, 2016

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215-2299

RE: Surrender of Medical License
License Number: D42752
Case Numbers: 2014-0604A & 2015-0344A

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

| have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D42752, effective immediately. | understand that upon
surrender of my license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual,
with or without compensation, and cannot otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”), §§ 14-101 ef seq., (2014 Repl. Vol.) and
other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC document and on
Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”)
acceptance becomes a FINAL ORDER of Disciplinary Panel A.

| have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges now pending before
Disciplinary Panel A. | acknowledge that the Board’s investigation determined that
following a formal peer review, | failed to meet the standard of quality care with regard
to five patients constituting violations of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §
14-404(a)(22) and my documentation was inadequate with regard to nine patients
constituting violations of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(40); and | acknowledge that the
Board’s investigation determined that | engaged in unprofessional conduct toward four
pain management patients, including sexual misconduct with three of the patients, and
unprofessional conduct toward two employees in my former practice site, constituting
