Respondent to Patient C between October 2012 and October 2014 for medications
including oxycodone, Xanax and Adderall.

70. Patient C stated that because of her addiction, she returned to see the
Respondent for prescriptions on several occasions over the course of about one year,”
According to Patient C, the Respondent contacted her by telephone monthly to tell
Patient C what time to meet him after the office closed and the employees had left.

71. According to Patient C, she and the Respondent engaged in sexual intercourse
or he performed oral sex on Patient C, in exchange for prescriptions for oxycodone,
Xanax and other CDS.

72. According to the Respondent’s interview, he stated that for approximately one
year, he met with Patient C at the practice to provide her with prescriptions on
Thursdays, sometimes when the office was still open, and sometimes when it had just
closed. He was aware that Patient C was addicted but he continued to prescribe for her
because he was afraid she would report him to the Board. "8

73. The Respondent issued prescriptions to Patient C using both her maiden
surname and her married surname.

74, Sometime around the end of 2013, according to Patient C, her family member
(Patient D) saw the Respondent for care and Patient D told Patient C that the

Respondent “came on to her and tried to have sex with her.”

" Pharmacy surveys and prescriptions obtained by the Board during its investigation confirmed that the
Respondent continued prescribing oxycodone, Adderall, Xanax and other CDS to Patient C through
October 30, 2014. Moreover, during the Respondent's interview, he acknowledged that he continued to
prescribe CDS for Patient C after she had been discharged from Practice A.

"8 He stated during the January 7, 2016 interview that Patient C threatened to report him to the Board “for
sex, and for giving her medications when | knew she was doing things, which | didn't at the time.”

'° According to Patient D, she drove Patient C to a visit with the Respondent after hours on one occasion

16
