Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Joseph C. Randall, Jr., M.D.

License Number: D42752; Case Numbers: 2014-0604A & 2015-0344A

Page 2

violations of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). Disciplinary Panel A’s Charges are attached
hereto and incorporated herein as Attachment A.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender in lieu of Disciplinary Panel A proceeding with further
investigation and to avoid prosecution of Disciplinary Panel A’s Charges. If this case
were to proceed to a hearing, | agree that the State would be able to prove the Charges,
and for purposes related to medical licensure, these investigatory findings will be
treated as if proven. | understand that by executing this letter of surrender, | am waiving
any right to contest the Charges in a formal evidentiary hearing at which | would have
had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on
my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that Disciplinary Panel A will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards, the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in any response to any inquiry, that | have
surrendered my license in lieu of further disciplinary action. | also understand that in the
event | apply for a license in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of
Surrender and the underlying investigative documents may be released or published by
Disciplinary Panel A to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender is considered a disciplinary action by the Board.

| affirm that on or before the date of Disciplinary Panel A’s acceptance of this
Letter of Surrender, | will provide to Board staff my original Maryland medical license
and my most recent renewal license issued by the Board. | also affirm that | will provide
access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of
the Health General article. | further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of
Surrender, my license will remain surrendered for a minimum period of three (3) years,
pursuant to Code Md. Regs. 10.32.02.06B(2)(b). In the event that | apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel A or its successor is not
required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and
the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. | understand that when
applying for reinstatement, | will approach Panel A or its successor in the same posture
as one whose license has been revoked. | also understand that if | apply for
reinstatement, | bear the burden of demonstrating my professional competence and
fitness to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel A or its successor.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have consulted
with an attorney before signing this Letter of Surrender. | understand both the nature of
Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand
