 

(f) Recognize that family members may be reluctant to state their
preference for another physician or decline a recommendation for fear
of offending the physician.

AMA OPINION 8.19

In June 2016, the AMA issued Opinion 8.19 regarding physicians providing

self-treatment or treatment to immediate family members. AMA Opinion 8.19

states:

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their
immediate families. Professional objectivity may be compromised when an
immediate family member or the physician is the patient; the physician’s
personal feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical
judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered. Physicians may
fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical history or may fail to.
perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Similarly, patients may
feel uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an
intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family member.
This discomfort is particularly the case when the patient is a minor child, and
sensitive or intimate care should especially be avoided for such patients.
When treating themselves or immediate family members, physicians may be
inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training. If
tensions develop in a physician’s professional relationship with a family
member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such difficulties
may be carried over into the family member’s personal relationship with the
physician.

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant
when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family
members may be reluctant to state their preference for another physician or
decline a recommendation for fear of offending the physician. In particular,
minor children will generally not feel free to refuse care from their parents.
Likewise, physicians may feel obligated to provide care to immediate family
members even if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake self-treatment or treatment
of immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings
where there is no other qualified physician available, physicians should not
hesitate to treat themselves or family members until another physician
becomes available. In addition, while physicians should not serve as a
