Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Michael W. Lansing, M.D.

Letter of Permanent Surrender
Page 2

pay a civil fine of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) within one (1) year, and prohibited
me from prescribing or dispensing CDS during the probationary period. A copy of the
Consent Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order
and because I am retiring from the practice of medicine. I acknowledge that the Consent
remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance
of the Letter of Permanent Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions
of the Order as long as I do not have or possess an active medical license in Maryland with
the exception of payment of the $50,000.00 civil fine, which is due within one (1) year
from the date the Consent Order was executed.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Permanent Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
for failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations, I understand that by executing this Letter of Permanent Surrender
Tam waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other

substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Permanent Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Permanent Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Permanent
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to

surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration. :

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that

[have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Permanent Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
