Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Peter P, Chiang, M.D,

_ Letter of Surrender
Page 2

. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order,
including taking a course in medical documentation, and due to my planned retirement. I
acknowledge that the Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order
of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required
to comply with the conditions of the Consent Order as long as I do not have or possess a
medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order, I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural Protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen, Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender, I have consulted with or was represented by an attorney prior to signing this
letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the
