(e) After performing any necessary hearing under this section, the hearing officer

shall refer proposed factual findings to the Board or a disciplinary panel for the

Board’s or disciplinary panel’s disposition.

Subsection (d) which provides that the ALJ “may hear” the matter if the individual fails to
appear, and subsection (e), which uses the language “any necessary hearing,” clearly
contemplate situations, such as defaults, where no hearing is required. See also COMAR
28.02.01.23A.

The ALJ found that Dr. Vaughn had proper notice of the December 11, 2017 prehearing
telephone conference and that he failed to appear and participate. On December 15, 2017, the
ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order based upon the OAH proceedings described above. The
ALJ proposed that the Panel find Dr. Vaughn in default, adopt as fact the statements set out in
the allegations of fact section of the charges, conclude as a matter of law that Dr. Vaughn
violated Health Occ. II § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) and (27) in the manner set forth in the charges, and
revoke Dr. Vaughn’s license to practice medicine.

The ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Dr. Vaughn, the administrative
prosecutor, and the Board. The proposed decision notified the parties that they may file written
exceptions to the proposed decision but must do so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed
Default Order. The Proposed Default Order stated that any exceptions and request for a hearing
must be sent to the Board with attention to the Board’s Executive Director. Neither party filed

exceptions.

This case came before Board Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) for final disposition.

3 On December 28, 2017, Panel A summarily suspended Dr. Vaughn’s license to practice medicine, in part, based on
information that Dr. Vaughn continued to practice medicine after his license had expired and prescribed controlled
dangerous substances (“CDS”) after he had surrendered his CDS permit to the Drug Enforcement Agency. The
summary suspension proceeding is separate from the hearing on the charges that were referred to OAH and resulted
in this default.
