following dates: August 27, 2015, October 12, 2015, December 13, 2015 and March 7, 2016.
Dr. Vaughn did not document any medical visits for Patient B prior to July 18, 2016. He signed
a certification of medical records attesting that he had provided the Board with all of Patient B’s
medical records in his possession. The only visits he had documented post-dated all of the
prescriptions he had issued to her cited above.

During Dr. Vaughn’s January 26, 2017 interview with Board staff, Dr. Vaughn stated that
Patient B had been referred to him by her sister, Patient A, and that he treated Patient B for
anxiety and sinus issues. Dr. Vaughn was not aware whether Patient B had been treated for
anxiety by a prior provider. Dr. Vaughn admitted that he had spoken with Patient B at
Restaurant A on approximately three or four occasions. Dr. Vaughn did not recall at precisely
which location he had written the prescriptions, which predated Patient B’s initial medical visit
at Facility B.

PATIENT C?

Patient C, a female server at Restaurant A of an undetermined age,!4 received several
prescriptions from Dr. Vaughn prior to being seen by him at Facility B for a single visit on
August 10, 2016. Dr. Vaughn initially saw Patient C at Facility B on August 10, 2016, and
prescribed Adderall, 30 mg twice daily (#60). Dr. Vaughn failed to document that Patient C had
previously been prescribed Adderall or any other medication for ADD. Dr. Vaughn wrote “n/a”
on the form entitled “medication list.” In response to a subpoena issued to Pharmacy A for

pharmacy records, Board staff obtained prescriptions that Dr. Vaughn had issued to Patient C for

'3 Board staff obtained Patient C’s identify from [Dr. Vaughn] during his interview on January 26, 2017. During the
interview, [Dr. Vaughn] acknowledged he had prescribed Adderall to Patient C while she was working at Restaurant
A.

'4 The records provided by [Dr. Vaughn] in response to the Board’s subpoena reflected a different surname for
Patient C than [Dr. Vaughn] had provided to Board staff during his interview. Moreover, the progress note
documented by [Dr. Vaughn] on August 10, 2016, was sparse and did not include a date of birth.
