all of Patient A’s medical records in his possession. The only visits he documented post-dated
the prescriptions he had issued to Patient A cited above.

On January 26, 2017, Board staff interviewed Dr. Vaughn under oath. Dr. Vaughn stated
that he initially met Patient A when she was a server at Restaurant A. Dr. Vaughn stated that he
had treated Patient A for back pain with prescriptions for Percocet and Xanax. Dr. Vaughn
denied that he had written any prescriptions for Patient A at Restaurant A, but was unable to
explain or recall at precisely which location he had written the prescriptions for Patient A cited
above. Dr. Vaughn stated that two to three months after he had evaluated Patient A at Restaurant
A, she came to Facility B to obtain her prescriptions.'' Dr. Vaughn stated that he did not
examine Patient A at Restaurant A with any medical equipment because she was “busy serving
other...clients.” Dr. Vaughn was unable to provide documentation for any medical visits
corresponding to the seven prescriptions he had issued to Patient A cited above. Dr. Vaughn
diagnosed Patient A with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (“ADHD”), even though, to
his knowledge, she had not been previously diagnosed with the disorder. Dr. Vaughn was not
aware if Patient A had a primary care provider.

PATIENT B”?

Patient B, a female in her 20s who was Patient A’s sister, initially saw Dr. Vaughn for
medical care at Facility B on July 18, 2016. She was being prescribed methadone from another
provider. Dr. Vaughn documented the reason for Patient B’s visit as chronic anxiety. During the
initial visit, Dr. Vaughn prescribed 60 tablets of Xanax, 2 mg, twice daily. Prior to Dr. Vaughn
seeing Patient B at Facility B, he had issued to her four prescriptions for Alprazolam (#60) on the

un The only visits recorded in Patient A’s medical record obtained from Dr. Vaughn were December 21, 2015,
January 8, 2016, and October 28, 2016.

R By letter dated July 12, 2016, Board staff requested that Patient B contact the Board to schedule a meeting.
Patient B failed to comply.
