FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel B concludes that Dr. Vaughn has defaulted, the following findings of fact
are adopted from the allegations of fact set forth in the June 23, 2017 Charges Under the
Maryland Medical Practice Act and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence.

Dr. Vaughn was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on July 31, 1992. His
license expired on September 30, 2017.4 Dr. Vaughn’s primary self-designated concentrations
are internal medicine and pediatrics; however, he is not board-certified in any medical specialty.
Dr. Vaughn was formerly licensed by the District of Columbia Board of Medicine (“D.C.
Board”). He allowed his license to expire in 2010, following disciplinary action in 2005 as set
forth below. During all times relevant to the facts in this case, Dr. Vaughn was employed part-
time at a weight loss center (“Facility A”) and an urgent care center (“Facility B”). On or about
March 9, 2016, the mother of two former patients of Dr. Vaughn filed a complaint with the
Board alleging that Dr. Vaughn, at a restaurant location (“Restaurant A”), had prescribed
controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) and other medications to her daughters (“Patients A
and B”), without conducting formal office visits or ordering “blood work.”

The Board initiated an investigation of the complaint and on or about November 1, 2016,
notified Dr. Vaughn of its investigation, and requested a written response. Additionally, Board

staff issued a subpoena to Dr. Vaughn for 10 patient records® (including Patients A and B) and

* Pursuant to section 14-403 of the Health Occupations Article, the license of an individual regulated by the Board
may not “lapse by operation of law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” The
Board’s investigation of Dr. Vaughn and issuance of charges against him occurred before the expiration of Dr.
Vaughn’s license. Therefore, by operation of law, Dr. Vaughn’s license was not permitted to, and did not, expire
during these proceedings.

5 In order to maintain confidentiality, identifying names are not used in this document, but will be provided to Dr.
Vaughn on request.

° The patient names were randomly selected by Board staff from pharmacy surveys.
