that both parties were required to participate, and that the failure to answer the phone and
participate in the conference could result in the issuance of a proposed default order. The letter
listed the telephone numbers that the ALJ would use to contact the parties and notified the parties
that they should inform the ALJ’s assistant if there was a different phone number that should be
called. Dr. Vaughn did not request a postponement of the telephone prehearing conference or
provide an alternate telephone number.

On December 11, 2017 at 9:30 a.m., the ALJ contacted the administrative prosecutor and
Dr. Vaughn at the telephone numbers indicated in the December 5, 2017 letter, The
Administrative Prosecutor was present on the phone call, however, both phone numbers for Dr.
Vaughn had an automated message saying that the phone number was out of service. The ALJ
tried the phone numbers for Dr. Vaughn several times and waited 15 minutes to see if Dr.
Vaughn contacted OAH to provide a different phone number. At 9:45 a.m., the ALJ convened
the telephone prehearing conference in Dr. Vaughn’s absence.

The Administrative Prosecutor moved for a default judgment against Dr. Vaughn and
offered the exhibits that she had planned to offer into evidence if the matter had proceeded to a
merits hearing. The ALJ admitted those exhibits into evidence.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “[i]f, after receiving proper notice, a party fails to
attend or participate in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the judge
may proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated
by the agency, issue a final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.” COMAR
28.02.01.23A. Similarly, Health Occ. § 14-405 provides, in pertinent part:

(d) If after due notice the individual against whom the action is contemplated fails

or refuses to appear, nevertheless the hearing officer may hear and refer the matter
to the Board or a disciplinary panel for disposition.
