Conference. Further, the Notice of Prehearing Conference informed the parties that failure to
attend the November 13, 2017 prehearing conference could result in a decision against the party
for failing to appear. On October 19, 2017, OAH also mailed a Notice of Hearing informing the
parties that the evidentiary hearing in this case was scheduled for December 13-14, 2017.

On November 13, 2017, Dr. Vaughn appeared at the prehearing conference without
counsel and the administrative prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State. At the time of the
conference, Dr. Vaughn had not yet filed a prehearing conference statement as he was instructed
to do in the Notice of Prehearing Conference. The Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) instructed
Dr. Vaughn to file his prehearing conference statement by the close of business on November 17,
2017.'

On December 4, 2017, the administrative prosecutor filed a request for a postponement of
the December 13, 2017 hearing. On December 5, 2017, the ALJ sent, by certified mail, a letter to
the parties informing them of a prehearing telephone conference scheduled for December 11,
2017 at 9:30 a.m. The letter was sent to Dr. Vaughn’s home address, as well as two other
addresses that OAH had on file for Dr. Vaughn.’ The letter was not returned to OAH by the U.S.
Postal Service. The ALJ found that Dr. Vaughn received the letter notifying him of the telephone
prehearing conference.

The letter informed the parties that the telephone conference would be convened to
discuss the administrative prosecutor’s postponement request, hear any argument from Dr.
Vaughn in opposition, rule on the request for postponement, and set a new hearing date, if

needed. The letter notified the parties that the telephone conference was a prehearing conference,

' The record in this case does not reflect whether a prehearing conference statement was filed by Dr. Vaughn.
Regardless, the default in this case is not based on any failure to file or any deficiencies with the prehearing
conference statement.

> Dr. Vaughn confirmed his home address at both the scheduling conference and the in-person prehearing
conference,
