requested summaries of care for all ten patients.’ On or about December 16, 2016, Dr. Vaughn
submitted a written response to the complaint. He stated in his response that he had seen Patients
A and B for anxiety and/or attention deficit disorder (“ADD”), and had prescribed Xanax® to
both of them. On or about December 21, 2016, Dr. Vaughn provided summaries of care to the
Board, but did not provide any medical records, stating that the records were “too long to send.”
Regardless, Dr. Vaughn signed the Certification of Medical records forms for each of the 10
patients and attested that he had provided the Board with the “complete medical records” for all
10 patients. Dr. Vaughn did not provide the Board with the subpoenaed medical records until
January 26, 2017, when he was subpoenaed to provide interview testimony before Board staff.
Prior Disciplinary History in the District of Columbia and Maryland

On or about September 20, 2005, the District of Columbia (“D.C.”) Board summarily
suspended Dr. Vaughn’s medical license for prescribing Schedule II CDS to a patient after the
termination of their physician-patient relationship and without documenting the CDS
prescriptions in a medical record. Subsequently, by Order dated May 16, 2006, the D.C. Board
revoked Dr. Vaughn’s medical license. On or about May 18, 2006, Dr. Vaughn filed a Motion
for Reconsideration of the May 16, 2006, D.C. Board’s Order (which the Board subsequently
denied on May 17, 2007). In its Final Order denying Dr. Vaughn’s Motion dated May 17, 2007,
the D.C. Board referenced a mental health provider who had evaluated Dr. Vaughn to assist in
his defense of the Board’s charges:

Dr. Vaughn did not believe he was violating medical ethics. He didn’t know that.

And I think he acted purely out of concern for helping indigent clients -- patients -
- whom he had diagnosed, had examined their X-rays, really believed that what

7 On or about November 1, 2016, the Board mailed a contact letter to Dr. Vaughn’s address of record notifying him
of the complaint, and it was returned to the Board as undeliverable. Dr. Vaughn subsequently updated his address
and on November 22, 2016, the Board resent the letter and subpoena to the new address provided by Dr. Vaughn.

® Xanax is the brand name for alprazolam, and is a Schedule IV benzodiazepine used in the treatment of anxiety
disorders.
