(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the
Board or a disciplinary panel;

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review|.|

One form of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine is providing
self-treatment or treatment to family members. The American Medical Association

has addressed this in a series of ethics opinions:!

Opinion 8.19 (2012) — Self-Treatment or Treatment of Immediate
Family Members

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their
immediate families. Professional objectivity may be compromised when an
immediate family member or the physician is the patient; the physician’s
personal feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical
judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered. Physicians may
fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical history or may fail to
perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Similarly, patients may
feel uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an
intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family member.
This discomfort is particularly the case when the patient is a minor child, and
sensitive or intimate care should especially be avoided for such patients.
When treating themselves or immediate family members, physicians may be
inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training. If
tensions develop in a physician’s professional relationship with a family
member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such difficulties
may be carried over into the family member’s personal relationship with the
physician.

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant
when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family
members may be reluctant to state their preference for another physician or

! The Board and the disciplinary panels may consider the Principles of Ethics of the American Medical
Association, but those principles are not binding on the Board or the disciplinary panels. See COMAR
10.32.02.16.

2
