—

The Board also charged the Respondent with a violation of COMAR 10.32.17.03D(1), .

which prohibits a health care practitioner from engaging in sexual behavior with a current

- patient.

(2) ‘Practice medicine” includes doing, undertaking, professing to do, and
attempting any of the following:
. @) Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing for, or removing any
physical, mental, or emotional ailment or supposed ailment of an individual:
1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that is exercised or invoked by
_ the practitioner, the patient, or both; or
2. By appliance, test, drug, iene, or treatment|.]

Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14- 101(0)(2) (2021).

Maryland courts in recent years have consistently expanded the definition of what
constitutes “in the es of medicine.” In McDonnell v. Comm’n on Med. ‘Discipline, 301 Md.
426 (1984), the court concluded that the legislature did not intend for a phstolan's general moral
character to be subject to sanction, thus, “in the practice of medicine” “is directly tied to the

physician’s conduct in the actual performance of the practice of medicine, i.e., in the diagnosis,

care, or treatment of patients.” Id. at 436-437 (attempt by physician to intimidate witnesses: .

scheduled to testify against him at a medical malpractice trial), However, in Bd, of Physician

Quality Assurance v, Banks, 354 Md. 59 Qa 999), the court rejected Banks’ argument that his

sexual harassment of co-workers during the hours of employment was not immoral or

unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Banks court found the physician’s
behavior “sufficiently ineecwitned wth patient care to constitute misconduct in the practice of ,
medicine.” Id at 76-77. |

In Finucan » Maryland Ba of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Mad. 577 (2004), the
court affirmed the Board’s wedon against Finucan for having “used the physiciani-patient

relationship for purposes of facilitating the engagement of current patients in sexual activities.” -

10
