The Board opened an investigation into the allegations and the investigation, in part,
revealed that Dr. Kreger had a history of substance abuse and had been hospitalized on several
occasions for issues related to substance abuse. On April 16, 2015, in lieu of a summary
suspension and charges being issued, Dr. Kreger entered into a Consent Order with Panel B.
Consent Order

In the Consent Order, Panel B concluded that Dr. Kreger violated several grounds of the
Maryland Medical Practice Act: Md. Code Health Occ. §14-404(a)(4) (is professionally,
physically, or mentally incompetent); (8) (Is addicted to, or habitually uses, any narcotic or
controlled dangerous substance as defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article); and (9)(ii)
(provides professional services while using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance, as
defined in §5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic
amounts or without valid medical indication).

Panel B suspended Dr. Kreger’s license to practice medicine in Maryland, subject to
certain terms and conditions, and until MPRP determined that she was safe to resume the
practice of medicine. Pursuant to the Consent Order, Dr. Kreger agreed to enroll in the MPRP
within 10 business days from the date of the Order, enter into a Board-monitored Rehabilitation
Agreement, and comply with all of the MPRP’s recommendations. The Consent Order also:

ORDERED that if the Respondent violates any condition of this Consent Order,

including a violation of any term or condition of the MPRP Rehabilitation

Agreement and Rehabilitation Plan, Disciplinary Panel B, in its discretion, after

notice and opportunity for a show cause hearing before Disciplinary Panel B or an

evidentiary hearing at the Office of Administrative Hearings, may impose

additional sanctions authorized under the Medical Practice Act, including a

reprimand, suspension, probation, revocation, and/or a monetary fine[.]

Dr. Kreger agreed and accepted to be bound by the Consent Order and all of its terms and

conditions.
