immediate medical _ and then will generally refer the patient elsewhere, either to a hospital,
an imaging test or to the patient’s primary care physician. However, as set forth above, the
Respondent and Individual A had sexual encounters on days that he treated her, and discussed
of and past sexual encounters, in and around the times hie treated her. Regardless, in this
‘case, I do not think it is even sssenstieg to find that their sexual — matched - in certain
instances with the dug he treated her. The Respondent took the medical relationship with
Individual A many steps further than that of an ordinary urgent care doctor.. His sexual
relationship wtih radiviaied A was completely intertwined with both her medical care, and her
employment with the Facility. Throughout their relationship, Individual A had some serious
health problems. Despite some of their text message conversations that seem to imply otherwise,
I do not believe that the Respondent was ever Individual A’s primary care physician. However, '
the Respondent oversaw Individual A’s medical en He played a role in her medical
health and consulted with her primary care physician and kidney specialist. The es
_ often reviewed and commented on Individual A’s lab oat: He prescaibed her medication even
when dis had not come to him for treatment. Regardless of the urgent care natiege ae the
Respondent’s practice, he took his medical relationship with altvidiuel A outside of the notmal
scope of an urgent care physician’s role. By virtue of his involvement in her health care, she
reasonably — that snvtlivennent to continue, and it did. With Individual A, the Respondent
stepped out of his role as an urgent care physician. Thus, in addition to the fact that there were
. multiple occasions when the Respondent and Individual A had sexual encounters on days that he
treated her, his entire involvement with her ee the duration of their two-year sexual
— was entangled with her medical treatment. Thus, I conclude shat the Respondent

engaged in sexual behavior with a current patient in violation of COMAR 10.17.32.03D(1).

-18
