ee

ORDERED that after a minimum of three years, if Dr. Gianelle has complied with all
terms and conditions of probation, Dr. Gianelle may submit a written petition for the termination
of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an
order of a disciplinary panel. Dr. Gianelle may be required to appear before a disciplinary panel
to discuss his petition to terminate the probation. The disciplinary panel may grant the petition to
terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Dr. Gianelle has complied
with all of the probationary conditions, and there are no pending complaints related to the
charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Gianelle allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Final Decision and Order, Dr. Gianelle shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a material
fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings, followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel. If the disciplinary panel
determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Gianelle shall be given a
show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Dr. Gianelle has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Final Decision and Order,
the disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr. Gianelle, place Dr. Gianelle on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions or suspend or revoke Dr. Gianelle’s license to practice
medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions
set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Gianelle; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Gianelle is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms

and conditions of this Final Decision and Order; and it is further
