Disputes regarding Possible Chest Pain and Whether Father Went to the Examination Room

There are two proposed factual findings of the ALJ upon which the Respondent takes
special focus in challenging. First, the ALJ found that, at the October 29, 2015, visit, in response
to the allergy shot, Patient A only complained of a runny nose and did not complain of chest pain.
Second, the ALJ found that, at that same visit, Patient A's father did not go to the examination
room. The ALJ, however, did not find these two findings especially significant. The ALJ
characterized the dispute regarding whether Patient A complained of chest pain as "a bit of a red
herring" (Proposed Decision at 17) and the dispute regarding whether the father entered the
examination room as "irrelevant" (Proposed Decision at 20). The Respondent claims that the ALJ's
findings on these matters were erroneous.

Did Patient A Complain of Chest Pain at the Visit?

The Respondent argues that Patient A complained of chest pain or chest pressure at the
office, on October 29, ,2015. The Respondent relics upon the electronic medical record for
October 29, 2015, which states, "C/O [Complaint of]: nasal congestion, runny nose. Chest pressure
afier allergy inj." The Respondent also relies upon the testimony of Patient A's father testimony
before the ALJ, in which the father stated on cross examination that Patient A complained of chest
pains at the visit. The Pancl, however, finds that Patient A did not complain of chest pain at this
visit. Patient A testified that she did not complain of chest pain during the office visit. As stated
previously, the Panel finds Patient A credible.

And, as also discussed above, the Respondent's medical records are not reliable. The Panet
also does not find reliable the father's testimony concerning Patient A's alleged chest pains. The
father did not mention that Patient A had chest pain when he was interviewed by the Board

investigators nor did he on direct examination. And, on cross examination, his testimony on chest
