i

(b)

(©)

(d)

(©)

@)

Within 15 BUSINESS DAYS of the commencement of the suspension period,
Dr. Gianelle shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

Dr. Gianelle shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

Dr. Gianelle shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP
to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board
to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. Dr. Gianelle shall not withdraw his release/consent;

Dr. Gianelle shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (ie., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Gianelle’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning Dr. Gianelle and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Gianelle, including,
but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. Dr. Gianelle shall not withdraw his release/consent;

Dr. Gianelle’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Final
Decision and Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Gianelle shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it

is further

ORDERED that, after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Final

Decision and Order has passed, and after Dr. Gianelle has fully and satisfactorily complied with

all the terms and conditions of suspension, Dr. Gianelle may submit a written petition to the

disciplinary panel for termination of suspension. Dr. Gianelle may be required to appear before

the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines

that Dr. Gianelle has satisfactorily complied with the terms and conditions of suspension, the

12
