her. He oversaw the medical complications that arose from her underlying serious health
problems, played a role in her medical health and consulted with her primary care physician and
kidney specialist. He reviewed and commented on her lab work and x-rays and prescribed her
medication even when she had not come to him for treatment. His intimate sexual relationship
with her was completely intertwined with both her medical care and her employment in his
practice. Because of his enduring involvement in her health care, she reasonably expected Dr.
Gianelle’s involvement to continue beyond the duration of any of her office visits, and it did. In
addition to the multiple occasions when they had sexual encounters on days that he treated her,
his entire association with her throughout the duration of their two-year sexual relationship was
inextricably entangled with her medical treatment. Regardless of the urgent care nature of Dr.
Gianelle’s practice, the ALJ concluded that he stepped out of his normal role as an urgent care
physician and took his medical relationship with Individual A many steps outside the scope of
that role. In so doing, Dr. Gianelle engaged in sexual behavior with a current patient, in violation
of COMAR 10.17.32.03D(1). Prop. Dec. at 18.

The Panel agrees with the ALJ’s analysis. Dr. Gianelle’s medical treatment of Individual
A did not simply consist of random urgent care exam room visits but involved a continuum of
medical care that spanned the timeframe of their entire sexual relationship. The evidence shows
that he was not only her friend and lover for over two years, but a physician who simultaneously
provided ongoing medical opinions, guidance, explanations, and treatment recommendations in
response to questions and medical updates from her during acute phases of her illness. She
confided her fears about the implications of her underlying medical condition to him and thanked
him for taking care of her. Even when not treating her immediate physical ailments in the urgent

care setting, he commented on and critiqued various medical and surgical aspects of hospital
