 

relationship ended. The medical care Dr. Gianelle provided to her included prescribing
controlled dangerous substances, referring her for diagnostic imaging, and providing continuing
medical advice on health care issues related to her underlying medical condition.

Based on the voluminous texts between Dr. Gianelle and Individual A, the ALJ found
that on multiple occasions when Dr. Gianelle treated her, and on or around the same day of
treatment, they had a sexual encounter or discussed the possibility of one. On November 19,
2015, after Individual A completed diagnostic imaging studies, they had a sexual encounter in
Room 5 at the Salisbury office location of Dr. Gianelle’s practice. Also, on that day, in a text
following their sexual encounter, he advised her how to relax her abdominal wall due to a hernia.
The next day on November 20, 2015, he discussed the results of the imaging studies with her.

On January 2, 2016, Dr. Gianelle treated Individual A for symptoms of a urinary tract
infection, did a urine culture, and prescribed medication. That same day, the two texted
presumably about having seen each other that day, and in response to a text from her after he
treated her, he said that he “[w]anted to wrap [her] up as well, but glad to get in a few kisses!”
On January 11, 2016, he treated her for hip and leg pain. He x-rayed her femur, removed sutures
from her chest and ordered an MRI of her thigh and hip. Later that day, he reported the results of
her MRI, and, in a text, told her “[t]he treatment is lovemaking, should be at your house by 5.
Love you!” The next day, they texted about their sexual encounter the night before.

On October 12, 2016, he treated her for chills, sweats, and a fever. He drew blood, did a
chest x-ray, and flu and strep tests. Before that visit, Individual A texted Dr. Gianelle that she
would try to see her primary care physician (“PCP”) that day, he told her to let him know, she

replied that she had hoped he would say he wanted her to come to him, and he responded “Yes,
