Siete ES. seeaaebede,

I’m your primary, will see you soon!” *

He later texted that her primary care physician wanted
her “to keep up fluids, Tylenol and rest .. . except for Friday!” Individual A texted back that she
“[w]ill be healthy and rested for our Friday of loving!!! Glad I came to see you, just don’t trust
anyone the way I trust you!!!”

On January 1, 2017, Dr. Gianelle treated Individual A for forearm trauma, took x-rays,
diagnosed her with neuralgia and neuritis, and prescribed medication. That same day, in
sexually explicit text messages to each other, they made plans to arrange a sexual encounter that
evening. The next day, Dr. Gianelle texted Individual A with further advice on taking the
medication he had prescribed.

The ALJ determined that Dr. Gianelle gave Individual A continuing medical advice
throughout their sexual relationship. On November 13, 2015, after a night together, he told her
how much he “loves loving” her, and then asked her about her bladder and told her that he would
put her on an antibiotic if it was not better. He often reviewed her lab work, called in
prescriptions for her, spoke with her primary care physician and kidney specialist, and spoke to
her about her diagnoses. Individual A regularly consulted him about a multitude of health issues.
On October 27, 2017, she told him that she had seen her primary care physician that day, and
“changed my primary to you!!! Looks like you are stuck with me.” She asked him for referrals
and called him “the best PCP.” Although Dr. Gianelle was not officially Individual A’s primary
care physician, she thought of and relied on him as such, based on his ongoing participation in
her medical care.

As the ALJ observed, Dr. Gianelle had sexual encounters with Individual A on days that
he treated her and discussed future and past sexual encounters in and around the times he treated

3 The texts between Individual A and Dr. Gianelle show that she received primary care treatment from another
physician.
