baie amis at

treatment related to her condition and established a parallel physician-patient and sexual
relationship. Contrary to his exceptions arguments, the evidence is utterly at odds with his claim
that she was not a “current” patient and reveals that he indeed treated her as a patient in the
ordinary sense even while he eagerly pursued their sexual relationship. Dr. Gianelle’s invocation
of the urgent care label of his practice to obscure the continuous and involved nature of his
physician-patient relationship with Individual A over the two years of their contemporaneous
sexual relationship from 2015-2017 is unavailing. The Panel denies his exception and rejects his
attempt to use the nature of his practice as a cover for his unethical conduct.

Second, Dr. Gianelle relies on his claim that Individual A was not a current patient to
further argue that his sexual relationship with her did not constitute “immoral” conduct and that
generic prohibitions of “immoral” conduct are impermissibly vague without tangible content. In
essence, he argues that an urgent care physician is not bound by the ethical obligations that apply
to physician practices and is free to engage in sexual encounters with whomever he pleases,
whenever he pleases, wherever he pleases, as long as those encounters do not occur in the urgent
care setting when the physician is in the immediate process of delivering medical treatment to
the patient. Based on the tangible facts and circumstances of Dr. Gianelle’s prohibited dual
relationship with Individual A, these arguments are equally unavailing, illogical, and inconsistent
with the weight of the evidence. The ALJ justifiably concluded that his conduct was immoral,
unprofessional, and occurred in the practice of medicine.

Contrary to Dr. Gianelle’s arguments, the Court of Appeals has held that a statute

2”

prohibiting “unprofessional conduct” or “immoral conduct” is not per se unconstitutionally
vague. Finucan v. Md. Bd. of Physicians, 380 Md. 577, 593 (2004) (citations omitted). As Dr.

Gianelle acknowledges in his written exceptions, the Court explained that the term refers to
