with compliance, as discussed herein, the Panel finds that an eighteen (18) month suspension

with continued participation in the MPRP is appropriate.

ORDER

On an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel B, it is hereby

ORDERED that the April 16, 2015 Consent Order is terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Kreger’s license to practice medicine in Maryland (License Number

D44419) is SUSPENDED® for a minimum of eighteen (18) months beginning July 27, 2016.

During the period of suspension, Dr. Kreger shall comply with all of the following terms and

conditions:

1.

Dr. Kreger shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) and continue in her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with the MPRP. Dr. Kreger shall fully and timely
cooperate and comply with all of the MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements,
including but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into
with the MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and toxicology screening as directed by the MPRP;

Dr. Kreger shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested or
required by the Board and the MPRP. Dr. Kreger shall sign the release/consent
forms to authorize the MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board,
including disclosure of any and all the MPRP records and files possessed by the
MPRP. Dr. Kreger shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
the MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Kreger’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal
and written information concerning Dr. Kreger and to ensure that the MPRP is
authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Kreger, including, but not limited
to, mental health and drug or alcohol treatment records;

Dr. Kreger shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101—14-702, and all laws and regulations governing the
practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

* If Dr. Kreger’s license expires while her license is suspended, the suspension period will be tolled. COMAR

10.32.02.05C(3).
