IIL. RESPONDENT'S EXCEPTIONS CONCERNING PATIENT C
Patient C testified at the hearing that the Respondent "reached undet my bra and cupped
my boobs, and he would go from one -- stop -- from one to the other, just cupping them.
Occasionally, he would lift my shirt with the other hand and look underneath and -- it just happened
several times, back and forth with his hand." The ALJ found Patient C credible. The ALJ wrote,
"Patient C's unwavering, consistent account of the facts and her immediate action to report the
incident convinced me that she was being truthful." The ALJ found it compelling that Patient C
told her mother that the Respondent's examination was inappropriate while they were still in the
office, that it was reported the same day to Patient C's primary care physician and to the police.
The ALJ also found it significant that Patient C's statements to the police detective the day afier
the incident were consistent with her testimony at the hearing. The Respondent's exceptions do
not challenge the ALJ's reasoning for her credibility determination of Patient C. The Board adopts
the ALJ's credibility determination of Patient C.
The ALJ found that the Respondent's testimony regarding whether he would go underneath
a "loose bra" to palpate a female patient was "illogical." The Respondent's testimony at issue 1s as
follows:
Q. Ifyou are examining a female patient wearing a bra, and she
complains of pain where her bra is located, why would when you
palpate, you necessarily go under the bra? Why could that
palpitation not occur over the bra, loose or not?
[Respondent's] A. Your Honor, if the patient is telling me -
pointing to the place which happens to be under the bra that's where
I'm hurting, when I place my hand. if the bra is loose already, of
course my hand will be going under the bra. I'm not going under the
bra because the bra is loose. I'm going there because that's where

the patient's telling me to palpate because that's where the paticnt’s
hurting.

21
