Il. RESPONDENT'S EXCEPTIONS CONCERNING PATIENT B

The Respondent takes exception to the ALJ's finding that the Respondent's touching of
Patient B's thigh (over the patient's shorts) was sexual in nature. The Respondent's position is that
his touching of Patient B's thigh was a medically appropriate part of an examination of the patient.
In his exceptions, the Respondent states, "to rule out red dermographism,'! a specific sub-type of
dermographic urticarial, he would apply pressure on the skin as outlined in the medical literature.”
The Respondent's medical records for Patient B do not reler to red dermographism.® In any event,
the Respondent cites to transcript page 183 of the Respondent's testimony, where the medical
literature that the Respondent is asked about is Factitious urticaria: Red Dermographism, Robert
P, Warin, British Journal of Dermatology, Vol. 104, p. 285-88 (1981). According to the article,
pressure is applied through scratching or rubbing. The Respondent testified on page 183 that
"[y]ou have to rub the skin to clicit the response." The Factitious urticarial; Red Dermographism
article states that rubbing is “carried out with the back of the middle finger nail stroked over a 20-
30 mm length." The article states that scratching is carricd out with either the dermographic
instrument or the edge of the thumb nail. However, neither the scratching or rubbing method
described in the article is consistent with the Respondent's touching as described by Paticnt B.

The Respondent specifically took exception to the ALJ's finding of fact 18. which states,
in relevant part, "the Respondent touched and rubbed Patient B's thigh, approximately two to three

inches below her vagina, both on her leg and over her shorts." The Respondent argues that Patient

7 Red dermographism differs from ordinary dermographism in that the skin response is more easily
evoked by rubbing or scratching and the weal, which appears quicker, is more diffuse and less
defined.

§ The Respondent states in his exceptions that he would not have mentioned red dermorgraphism
in his records because it was not present. The Respondent testified, however, that he diagnosed
Patient B with red dermographism. (T. 223.) The records do not reflect a diagnosis of red
dermographism.

18
