Q. Is there any reason, despite a loose bra, that you still can't
place your hand on top of the bra?

A. l apologize. Once again, where the patient is pointing, that's
where Fl put the hand.

Q. Right. And if the bra is there, loose or not, can you not put
your hand on top of the bra?

A. If the bra happens to be loose, my hand will go underneath.
If a bra is tight, I'm not going to unbuckle the bra and put the hand
underneath.
(T. 270-71). The ALJ explained why she found the Respondent's testimony illogical: "[c]ertainly
the Respondent could have placed his hand over Patient C's bra in the place where she indicated
pain, whether or not her bra was loose." The Respondent took an exception, which is as follows:
"Respondent excepts to the ALJ's classification of Respondent's testimony regarding Patient C's
‘loose bra’ as ‘illogical.' Respondent maintains that the standard of care requires that a physician
palpate the affected area indicated by the patient." The Panel cannot discern how the Respondent's
point about the standard of care addresses whether it would be sufficient for the Respondent to
place his hand over a patient's bra to palpate an area with pain, especially in light of the
Respondent's testimony that "[iJf a bra is tight, I'm not going to unbuckle the bra and put the hand
underneath." In other words, the Respondent's exception does not address the bra. The Panel.
however, does not adopt the ALJ's characterization of the Respondent's testimony on this subject
as illogical. The Panel instead finds that his testimony on this subject was evasive. The
Respondent was unwilling to answer the question, which was asked three times.
The Respondent also takes exception to “the ALJ's characterization that Respondent
acknowledged that he may have ‘inadvertently touched her breast."". The Respondent's exception
states that he "acknowledged that he may have 'come into contact with’ Patient C's breast.” ‘The

Respondent cites to transcript page 263 of the hearing. The ALJ also cites to page 263 and wrote,

22
