ae

“conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of a profession or conduct which is
unbecoming a member of good standing of the profession.” Jd. It is irrelevant that Dr. Gianelle’s
sexual relationship with Individual A was consensual or that it arose from her employment at his
practice. As a physician who deliberately pursued a two-year sexual relationship with Individual
A while repeatedly and concurrently involving himself in her medical assessments and
treatments, Dr. Gianelle’s “consensual sexual relationship” demonstrated “moral unfitness . . .”
See Finucan, 380 Md. at 593-94, quoting Lugo v. New York State Dep’t of Health, 306 A.D.2d
766 (2003). Dr. Gianelle knew of Individual A’s underlying serious medical condition and her
medical and surgical history. He was singularly aware of her trust in and reliance on him as her
medical provider. Her communications to him clearly indicated her health care expectations of
him as his patient and her dependence on and confidence in his medical knowledge as a
continuous health care provider throughout their prolonged romantic and sexual relationship. The
Panel finds that Dr. Gianelle’s conduct not only abused his professional status as a physician and
violated the ethics of the medical profession but was immoral within the meaning of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(3).

Dr. Gianelle also argues that the ALJ used his marital infidelity as a supporting factor for
her proposed sanction. Dr. Gianelle is incorrect. Rather, the ALJ determined that Dr. Gianelle
utilized his Facility to enable the sexual relationship. He engaged in sexual encounters with
Individual A in the office during business hours, the encounters were known to Facility
employees, and placed the reputation and professionalism of the Facility in an unbecoming light.
Prop. Dec. at 19. The Panel agrees with the ALJ that Dr. Gianelle’s misconduct as a Facility
physician and the owner of the practice was “sufficiently intertwined” with patient care and with

the operation of the Facility “to constitute misconduct in the practice of medicine.” Id. Board of
