i

Md. Code Ann., Health Bex 14- 404 ANG i) and Gil Feamoral Eni Unprofessional Conduct in the
Practice of Medicine :

The Respondent’s sexual relationship with Individual A also constituted immoral and

: unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. Although their relationship was consensual.

it occurred in conjunction-with his treatment and exawaleations regarding her sonnet care,
Additionally, Individual A was his employee. They had sexual encounters in their office in the
middle of the day, during business ho They worked their schedules so that they — be
together. From the Board’s interview of Eee, a former employee of the Facility, it
was clear that co-workers were aware of their es Joint Bx. #15. They overheard

phone conversations, noticed that the Respondent would go into Individual A’s office and come

out a half hour later. Jt. Ex. #15, p.495. Co- workers had seen them coming out of a hotel near

the Facility’s Easton office. Jt. Ex. 415, p. 495. The Respondent’s wife was an instrumental part
of the Facility, and she and Individual A were friends. Although the Respondent cannot sibe
sanctioned by the Board for infidelity, his infidelity in this case involved, and affected, the
professionalism of the Facility. The — and Individual A utilized the Facility to enable -
their sexual relationship. Further, as set forth above, the Respondent took his medical ”
relationship with individual A far beyond that normally experienced in an urgent care scenario,
thereby extending ‘that relationship to a continuing doctor/patient relationship. ‘Tt was not
possible, under these circumstances, for the Respondent to remain objective where Individual A's i
medical care was concerned. His actions placed the medical profession, and the reputation of the
Facility, in an unbecoming light, By this behavior, the Respondent’s actions were “sufficiently

intertwined” with patient care, and with the operation of the Facility to constitute misconduct in

the practice of medicine.” Banks at 76-77. As such, his conduct, both immoral and

unprofessional, occurred in the practice of medicine, in violation of Section 14-404(a)(3)() and
(ii) of the Act.
: 19
