——

nephrologist, the Respondent did een a chest x-ray and a flu test, and Individual A.
followed up with that nephrologist. On January 1, 2017, she came in with severe palit in her

wrist. There was no —_— but he gave her 12 pills of Narco, a Vicodin generic pain

* medication. On January 9, 2017, ata point after their relationship ended, Individual A came ii

after slipping on the ice. She had pain in her ribs and lowe back. He gave her Narco at that
time as well. (On March 17, 2018, she fell down the stairs and hurt her shoulder and ankle. The
Respondent did x-rays, which were negative, and treated her for a sprain. Tr. 28-32.

The Respondent denied that Individual A was ever his patient. He treated her on
occasion as an urgent care patient. He iodioned, that she was never dependent upon him for
medical care in any sense. He denied that they ever had a sexual encounter when he was treating
her and said that their relationship was consensual and not exploitative.

The Respondent explained that at the end of 2017, Individual A started to want more than °
the Respondent could give to the relationship. As a result, he ended the relationship. After that,

Individual A threatened that he would “feel the wrath of a woman scorned,” and began to make

‘false accusations against him regarding sleeping with other patients and prescribing controlled .

dangerous substances seithuret seeing patients. Tr. 35. The Respondent said that he has spon
four. years defending himself against her unfounded accusations.

‘ The Respondent argued that an urgent care provider’s relationship begins when the
patient walks into the exam room and ends when the examination is finished, with the exception

of pea referrals for lab work, an imaging test, to the emergency room, or to the patient’s

primary care physician... He maintained Hat the State presen no evidence of a sexual

encounter during the times that he treated Tniieyacnal. A. He cited two outof: state cases, Dayley -

y. United States of America; Intermountain Health Care, Inc., 2018 WL 1590254, from the
United States, District Court, D., Utah, Central Division, and Nickler v. Meréy Medical Center,

14
