B's statements were inconsistent, and the ALJ did not grasp the inconsistencies, which, according
to the Respondent, demonstrate that the Patient B was not credible. The Respondent describes the
purported inconsistency as follows: "[i]n Patient B's testimony to the Board investigator, she
alleged that Respondent massaged her thigh. In her testimony at the hearing, however, she alleged
that Respondent kept his hand on her thigh for thirty seconds." (Italics added.) The Respondent's
description of the patient's testimony does not provide an accurate portrayal of Patient B's
testimony.

First, Panel B cannot locate where Patient B used the word "massaged" in her interview
with the Board investigators, and the Respondent does not identify where in the transcript the word
is found. The patient did state that the Respondent would "stroke" her thigh and that he used his
whole hand. Patient B also said in the interview that the Respondent "put his hand really close to
my privates on the inner thigh. And it just made me very uncomfortable.”

Second, during the hearing, Paticnt B testified to more than just that the Respondent "kept
his hand on her thigh for thirty seconds." The patient testified at the hearing that the Respondent
"stroked" her thighs. She made clear, in fact, that he did not rest his hand on her thigh, but that he
rubbed his hand on her thigh. She also said that he used his whole hand, that his hand was
approximately two inches from her groin area, and that his "hand was on top of my shorts when
he did that. And he rubbed up and down." And the patient's statements reflect that the
Respondent's touching was not consistent with the techniques used in a proper medical
examination. The patient's statements are consistent. The Panel agrees with the ALJ that Panel
B's testimony was credible, and the Panel does not accept the Respondent's testimony concerning
Patient B. The Respondent's touching at issue was neither medically indicated nor medically

appropriate and finds that it was sexual in nature and that it constitutes sexual misconduct. The

19
