————E7E

and Order and is appended to this Order as Attachment A). The factual findings were proven by
a preponderance of the evidence.
CONSIDERATION OF EXCEPTIONS

First, Dr. Gianelle takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that his sexual relationship with
Individual A* was with a current patient. He contends that Individual A was never a current
patient of his because he did not engage in any sexual behavior with her during the times he
provided treatment. As he did before the ALJ, he argues that the unique nature of his practice as
an urgent care provider means that he does not have continuing physician-patient relationships or
patients in the ordinary sense, and that his provider relationship begins when a patient walks into
the urgent care exam room and ends when the patient leaves. The evidence in Individual A’s
medical record, over 5,000 text messages between her and Dr. Gianelle, and his testimony before
the ALJ, however, contradict Dr. Gianelle’s arguments.

It was undisputed that Individual A was diagnosed with a very serious medical condition
in 2013 which required continuing medical and surgical treatment in subsequent years. Dr.
Gianelle admits that he engaged in a lengthy romantic and sexual relationship with Individual A
from October 2015 to December 2017. Their sexual encounters took place in hotels, her truck,
her house, and in some Facility offices. The ALJ found that throughout the duration of that
sexual relationship, Dr. Gianelle treated her as a patient in his office six times - on January 2 and
11, 2016, June 8 and 22, 2016, October 12, 2016, and January 1, 2017, Jt. Exh. 11, and gave
medical advice on numerous other occasions. Jt. Exh. 23. He also treated Individual A twice in
2014 and early 2015 before they began their sexual relationship, and twice after their sexual

> Dr. Gianelle states, incorrectly, that Individual A is the Complainant in this case. It was Dr. Gianelle, however, not
Individual A, who self-reported the information to the Board about his sexual relationship with her on January 24,
2019. In his self-report, he stated that he did so because she filed a public complaint against him with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) in October, 2018, and he was concerned that his relationship with
her could be considered a “technical” violation of the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations. COMAR 10.32.17. Jt.
Exh. 1.
