“No.” (T. 211.) And then he was asked whether that could have happened inadvertently, and he
answered that it “could have happened.” He was then asked whether he recalled any inadvertent
touching, and he responded, “I think it may have happened.” (T. 211.) But, later in his testimony,
he returned to a definitive stance:
Q. Okay. So you said today to Judge Sinrod that it’s possible that
you may have touched Patient A’s breast. But when you provided

this response to the Board, that’s not what you said.

A. Well, I'm saying it clearly here. Accidental nor intentional
contact did not oceur with her breasts.

Thus, the Respondent twice indicated that he id nof accidentally touch a breast or the breasts of
Patient A, but, on at least two occasions, he indicated that he may fave accidentally touched a
breast or the breast area of Patient A. The Respondent's statements arc inconsistent.

Regarding the Respondent's credibility, the ALJ did not base her finding that the
Respondent was less credible than Patient A solely on the contradiction between no accidental
contact and possible accidental contact of Patient A's breast(s). The ALJ also made a demeanor-
based credibility determination of the Respondent by observing "hesitations" in his testimony.
(Proposed Decision at 20.) Hesitations in testifying are demeanor-bascd for the sake of credibility
determinations. State Board of Physicians y. Bernstein, 167 Md. App. 714, 759 (2006). And an
ALJ's demeanor-based credibility determination is entitled to substantial deference and can only
be rejected by the agency if the agency gives strong reasons for doing so. Gabaldoni v. Board of
Physician Quality Assurance, 141 Md. App. 259, 261 (2001) (quoting Department of Health and
Mental Hygiene v. Shrieves, 100 Md. App. 283, 302-03 (1994)). The Panel does not find strong

reasons for rejecting the ALJ's demeanor-based credibility determination of the Respondent. In

° The ALJ’s reliance on the inaccurate transcription on the one answer (discussed in footnote four)
does not negate the ALJ's finding that the Respondent was less credible than Patient A.

8}
