accidentally touched her. The ALJ also noted that, at the OAH hearing, the Respondent testified
that he could have inadvertently touched Patient A’s breast and that it “*may have happened.*”
The ALJ also wrote that the Respondent testified at the OAH hearing that incidental contact did
occur with Patient A’s breast.’

The Panel finds that the Respondent’s statements on whether he had accidental contact
with Patient A’s breast(s) are inconsistent. On October 26, 2016, when the Respondent was
interviewed by the Board investigators, he was asked whether he touched Patient A’s breast during
the October 29, 2015, visit. The Respondent answered, “Did palpation, | may have touched but
not intentionally,” and that he thought that it “probably may have happened.” But then, ina letter,
dated November |, 2016, to the Board, which he signed, his position on the matter changed. The
letter states, “there was neither accidental nor intentional contact with the patient's breast at any
time.” However, on April 10, 2018, at OAH, the Respondent initially indicated that, when he
places a stethoscope on the sternal area, the touching of the breasts “could” have happened.> (T.

209.) He was also asked whether it was necessary to palpate the breast area, and he answered,

4 ‘The ALI’s finding that the Respondent testified at the OAH hearing that he did have incidental
contact with Patient A’s breast was based upon an inaccurate transcription of an answer the
Respondent gave when testifying at OAH. The correct transcription of the Respondent's answer
indicates that the Respondent answered that he had neither accidental nor intentional contact with
Patient A’s breasts. The Panel has disregarded the initial transcription of this answer of the
Respondent, and the Panel has considered the re-transcription, which indicates that he testified that
he did not have accidental or intentional contact with a breast of Patient A at the October 29, 2015,
visit. The Panel considered the entire decision in this matter in light of the re-transcription of the
Respondent's answer at issue. Still, even in its initial decision, the Panel had not given any weight
to the part of the original transcription that incorrectly indicated that the Respondent testified that
he intentionally touched Patient A’s breast. The Panel deemed that purported admission as too
much of an aberration from his other statements and was thus considered unreliable.

> The Respondent’s answers on page 209 of the transcript are confusing. At first, he answers the
question of whether he inadvertently touched the patient’s breasts when he placed the stethoscope
on her sternal area by stating, “Depending on the anatomy, that could happen, meaning never —
never touching the breast.” But then he was asked whether he had a “recollection of that?” The
Respondent answered, “I don’t remember, but with the exam, that could have happened.”

10
