that the Respondent preyed upon vulnerable, teenage girls and that this pattern of behavior is a
great risk to other young patients, The State detailed the testimony of Patients A. B, and C on the
impact upon them of the Respondent's behavior. Each of the patients testified as to their distrust
of male physicians based upon the Respondent's actions.

The Panel finds that the Respondent used his position as a physician to engage in sexual
misconduct with three patients, who were each teenagers at the time. Based upon this pattern of
sexual misconduct, the Panel finds that the Respondent poses a substantial risk to other patients.
The revocation of the Respondent's license to practice medicine in Maryland is warranted.!”

ORDER

Pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) and Health Oce. § 1-212(c)(4), it is. by
an affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Board Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the license of Respondent Surender K. Vaswani, M.D. to practice
medicine in Maryland (License No. D44431) is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that this Amended Final Decision and Order supersedes the Iinal Decision
and Order concerning Dr. Vaswani that was issued on January 14, 2019; and it is further

ORDERED that this Amended Final Decision and Order goes into effect upon the
signature of the Executive Director for the Board, who signs on behalf of Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document.

'° As ordered by the circuit court, Panel A has considered its entire decision in light of the corrected
transcription of the Respondent’s answer at issuc. Other than a modification of the Panel’s findings
concerning its credibility findings on Patient A and the Respondent, focusing on the Respondent's
statements on whether he accidentally or may have accidentally touched Patient A’s breast(s), the
new transcription of the Respondent’s answer docs not substantively affect the Panel’s decision,
findings, conclusions, sanction, or order.

26
