eeneseaais

‘THe RESPONDENT’S TESTIMONY
The Respondent started the Facility in 2005. He is Board certified in emergency
medicine. The Facility treats individuals for unscheduled illness or injury. According to the

Respondent, for the'time he is with a patient, there is a doctor/patient relationship; however,

ordinarily, the patient is discharged to the patient’s primary care physician for follow-up. -

The Respondent treated Individual A nine times and referred her for diagnostic tests
twice. Their romantic relationship — in 2015, They were both married at the time; each was
having marital problems. Individual A was promoted to manager of the Easton office of the
Facility, She developed some serious health problems, and the Respondent maintained that as a
friend, she would talk to him about those. There was a hiatus in her employment with the
Facility; a colleague of the Beepondent fired her in August 2016; she was re-hired in June 2017. ¢
She came to the clinic for treatment during that time, and the Respondent and Individual A’s
relationship continued. | .

The Respondent addressed each of the occasions he treated Individual A. There were
two occasions that he treated her in 2014, prior to the Sip that they began their romantic

relationship. Thereafter, on January 2, 2016, he treated her for a urinary tract infection. On

January 11, 2016, she came in with severe pain in her legs and hip. The Respondent sent her for

an MRI, which later came back normal. On June 8, 2016, Individual A came in for abdominal

pain after eating. The Respondent did lab work, and even though the lab work came back

normal, he referred her fa the emergency room because she was on immunosuppressant
medication. On June 22, 2016, Individual A came in witha cyst on her Jeg that she had for a
long time. She wanted the Respondent to remove it. The Respondent — her to go to a
derinatitigpict, but she refused so the Respondent removed it and suited it. On October 12, .
2016, she came in with a fever and cold symptoms during flu season. At the — of her

13
