ee

disciplinary panel may administratively terminate Dr. Gianelle’s suspension through an order of

the disciplinary panel. If the disciplinary panel determines that Dr. Gianelle has not satisfactorily

complied with the terms and conditions of suspension, the suspension shall be continued through

an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms

and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that upon termination of the suspension, Dr. Gianelle shall be placed on

PROBATION for a minimum of THREE (3) YEARS.° Dr. Gianelle shall comply with the

following terms and conditions of probation:

1. Dr. Gianelle shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a)

(b)

()

(d)

Dr. Gianelle shall continue his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be entered into an amended
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan, as
determined by MPRP;

Dr. Gianelle shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

Dr. Gianelle shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP
to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board
to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order. Dr. Gianelle shall not withdraw his release/consent;

Dr. Gianelle shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i-e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Gianelle’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning Dr. Gianelle and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Gianelle, including,

> If Dr. Gianelle’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.

13
