The Respondent contends that the father entered the examination room after the
examination to discuss the patient's condition with him. The Respondent relies upon a medical
note in which the Respondent handwrote the following:

10-29-15 — Dymista [nasal spray], dad to CB [call back]
if no improv[ement]. d/w [discussed with] dad

The Respondent also relies upon his own testimony and the testimony of one of his medical
assistants.

As previously discussed, the Panel has serious concerns about the reliability of the
Respondent and his medical records. The electronic medical record for the visit does not refer to
the father. Considering the aberration for the visit, that a parent was not present for the
examination, the fact that the father is not mentioned in the electronic medical record tends to
support the testimony of both Patient A and her father that the father did not go to the examination
room and that the Respondent did not discuss the patient’s condition with the father.

The Respondent also relies upon the testimony of a certain medical assistant whom the
ALJ found not credible. The medical assistant testified that the father went to the examination
room. The medical assistant testified that she herself did not go into the examination room but
walked back and forth in the hallway by the examination room where she saw the Respondent
listening to Patient A's chest with a stethoscope. The medical assistant explained that she has a
detailed memory of the visit because she remembers instances when patients have reactions to
allergy shots taken at the office. The medical assistant, however, could not recall the name of any
specific patients who recently had had a reaction to an allergy shot nor the date of the last time a
patient had a reaction to a shot. She eventually testified that there was actually no reason why she
would remember Patient A as opposed to any other patient. The medical assistant also testified

that the Respondent pressed the stethoscope over the patient's shirt, while the Respondent testified

15
