Credibility Determinations

The ALJ found Patient A's testimony credible. According to the ALJ, Patient A‘s testimony
was consistent with her previous statements, she reported the incident on the date it occurred, and
she had an immediate emotional reaction when leaving the Respondent's office. ‘The ALJ found
the Respondent less credible than Patient A, finding contradictions and hesitations in his testimony.

Pertaining to the ALJ's credibility determination of Patient A, the Respondent took
exception to the ALJ's finding that Patient A's testimony at OAH was virtually identical to her
interview with the Carroll County police detective and with her interview with the Board
investigator. According to the Respondent's exceptions, neither the detective nor the Board
investigator asked the patient about her "full symptoms or complaints which led to her rapid
examination.”

Pertaining to the ALJ's credibility determination of the Respondent. regarding the incident
with Patient A, the Respondent states in his exceptions that the ALJ's finding of contradictions in
his statements was based upon only one example. The one example the Respondent refers to is
the ALJ’s finding with respect to the Respondent’s statements on whether he accidentally touched
Patient A’s breast(s).

ut

The ALJ noted that, in his written response to the Board, the Respondent stated, “there

was neither accidental nor intentional contact with [Patient A's] breast at any time.'"* In contrast
to that statement, the ALJ recounted that, when the Respondent was interviewed by the Board’s

investigators, he indicated that when he was palpating Patient A*s chest it is possible that he

3 The Respondent's written response was signed by both the Respondent and by the Respondent's
attorney. The written response explains in it that "[t]he sentence structure and word usage in this
response may be that of the attorney assisting in the preparation of this response and do not
necessarily purport to be the exact words of the health care provider."

9
