informing the manager on duty. In February 2017, she was two hours late for an evening shift
with additional incidents of being gone from the office for 30 to 40 minutes without the staff
having knowledge of her whereabouts. In April 2017, the practice counseled Dr. Bailey
regarding staff and parent complaints that she was rude to parents, left patients in examining
rooms for extended periods of time while she was in the break area, and left the medical office
while she had patients waiting to be seen. In May 2017, there was a complaint that Dr. Bailey
had left the building while her patients were waiting to be seen, without informing the manager
on duty, a situation that required another pediatrician having to see her patients. In addition, there
were reports that Dr. Bailey failed to document her clinical activity in two patients’ charts and
failed to answer about a dozen calls during the night when she was “on-call.” On May 16, 2017,
the pediatric practice terminated Dr. Bailey’s employment.
July 3, 2017: Board Interview under Oath — Admission to Self-Prescribing

In a telephonic interview with Board staff under oath on July 3, 2017, Dr. Bailey
admitted that she had been self-prescribing medications for certain medical conditions and
refilling them herself. Dr. Bailey stated that she had received these prescriptions from other
physicians for previously diagnosed conditions, and at some point, did not have medical
insurance or a doctor, so she “called in” her own refills using a fictitious patient’s name if she
ran out of refills in her own name. Dr. Bailey also acknowledged that in April 2017, she “called
in” a prescription to a chain pharmacy in Virginia Beach for a medication for a medical condition
in the name of a fictitious patient, and represented herself as a Maryland prescriber, after which
one of the pharmacists became suspicious and reported concerns to the Virginia Beach
authorities. Dr. Bailey further stated that she paid in cash for the prescriptions and had been

intermittently calling in prescriptions in a fictitious name for the past ten years. She conceded
