that she had no good explanation for self-prescribing her medication while enrolled in MPRP and

that she knew using a fictitious name would be illegal.”

SHOW CAUSE HEARING

On August 9, 2017, the Office of the Attorney General issued a Violation of Consent
Order and Notice of Show Cause Hearing scheduled for August 23, 2017. On August 21, 2017,
Dr. Bailey requested a 30-day postponement of the hearing which was granted by Panel B. The
show cause hearing® was conducted on September 27, 2017.

At the hearing, Dr. Bailey did not dispute that Provision 12 of her MPRP Rehabilitation
Agreement required that she not self-prescribe and not self-treat. Nor did she dispute her
discharge by MPRP for failing to comply with that provision and with other conditions of her
Rehabilitation Plan requiring vocational and toxicology monitoring, daily check-in and monthly
face-to-face meetings with MPRP, and outpatient therapy with a mental health provider. Dr.
Bailey admitted to the Panel that she self-prescribed and refilled prescriptions under a fictitious
name while enrolled in MPRP and that she had done so intermittently for ten years. She also
confirmed that her self-prescribing of medications led to her latest arrest in Virginia. The State
argued that Dr. Bailey violated Provision 12 and thus violated a condition of her probation and
the 2016 Consent Order because her arrest and criminal charges in Virginia for prescription fraud
were based on her self-prescribing under a fictitious name. The State further argued that MPRP’s

7 On July 17, 2017, Panel B summarily suspended Dr. Bailey’s medical license in the state of Maryland, and

continued the summary suspension after a post-deprivation hearing on July 27, 2017. Dr. Bailey’s summary
suspension was not at issue in the Show Cause proceedings.

8 The hearing was not a formal evidentiary hearing. A show cause hearing is not a full evidentiary hearing
and is not a contested case proceeding under the Administrative Procedure Act. The Board uses show cause
hearings to determine whether further action is necessary in cases where there are no facts in dispute, especially
where it is reviewing compliance with conditions of consent orders or conditions of probation.

10
