self-prescribing a non-controlled dangerous substance (“non-CDS”) and filling it in Maryland.
She stated that on this occasion, she was unable to pick it up in Maryland, so she picked it up in
Virginia. Dr. Bailey does not have an active license to practice medicine in Virginia.

Dr. Bailey failed to inform MPRP that police in Virginia Beach had issued a warrant for
her arrest and that she was being investigated in the Commonwealth of Virginia for prescription
fraud for writing a prescription, intended for herself, in the name of a fictitious person. She also
failed to inform MPRP that she had been picking up prescriptions at a pharmacy in Virginia
which she had self-prescribed in the name of a fictitious person on other occasions as well as the
one occasion when a pharmacist became suspicious.”

On May 11, 2017, MPRP notified the Board that Dr. Bailey had failed to check-in‘ as
required by her Rehabilitation Plan, and that she may be in the custody of Virginia law
enforcement. MPRP also informed the Board that Dr. Bailey’s employer/vocational monitor
terminated Dr. Bailey’s employment based on concerns about her unreliability and behavior in
the pediatric office where she was employed.

On May 15, 2017, the Board sent correspondence to Dr. Bailey advising her that it had
received a critical event report from MPRP, described the report, and requested her written
response to the report.

On May 16, 2017, Dr. Bailey’s outpatient psychiatrist informed MPRP that he had been
contacted by a detective in Virginia who informed him that Dr. Bailey was writing prescriptions
for herself. The physician stated that he was unable to “help” Dr. Bailey although he has seen her

for years.

5 A police investigation in Virginia determined that between September 2015 and March 2017, Dr. Bailey

submitted numerous prescriptions to a pharmacy in Virginia Beach for herself in the name of a fictitious person.

‘ Under the terms of her Agreement with MPRP, Dr. Bailey was required to “check-in” by phone or email.
