25.

doctors whose prescription pads were found: Physician B, in Waldorf,
Maryland and Physician C, in Culpeper, Virginia;

Respondent provided a residential address in Norfolk, Virginia. The
Detective determined that the house at the address was Respondent's
mother’s house but had been sold several years ago;

The Detective called the pediatric office in Maryland where Respondent
was employed and informed the office manager that she needed to speak
to someone about an employee (the Respondent) who had received
prescriptions from doctors at the practice. Later, the Detective received a
call from Respondent who stated, “you weren't supposed to call my
employer” and “you need to drop the charges and call them back and let
them know that the charges have been dropped”;

Two different pills were found in Respondent's car which were not
immediately identifiable. The pills were sent to a laboratory for analysis;*
and

Respondent had filled 29 prescriptions at the chain pharmacy under the
fictitious patient name between September 2015 and March 25, 2017.

On May 22, 2017, the Board also received the narrative of the events that

led to Respondent’s arrest. A search of Respondent’s automobile revealed 17

prescription bottles, four of which had the name of the fictitious patient, and more than

75 hard copy (blank) prescriptions from more than 10 prescribers.

26.
Respondent.

a.

On May 25, 2017, the Board received the written response from the
Respondent stated that:

She did not realize until after she completed the ethics course’, that self-
prescribing with any other name than her own “would get me in trouble;”

She wrote the prescriptions for herself to “continue my therapy with
medications previously prescribed to me for these diagnosed conditions:
(diagnoses omitted)”;

For the past 6 years, she has been unable to afford medical insurance or
medical care for herself;

? To date, the Board has not been informed the results of the laboratory testing.
* One of the other conditions required that Respondent take an ethics course, which she completed in

April 2017.

6
