New York

In December 2015, the New York State Board for Professional Medical Conduct (“New
York Board”) issued charges against Dr. Bailey based on the disciplinary actions by the
Maryland and Virginia medical boards. The charges also included unprofessional conduct based
on Dr. Bailey’s fraudulent answers to questions and filing of a false report on her New York
registration renewal application for her failure to disclose that criminal charges were pending
against her in Virginia. In March 2016, the New York Board revoked Dr. Bailey’s license in that
state after holding a hearing on the charges at which she did not appear. The Virginia Board

subsequently suspended her license as a reciprocal action.
2016 Consent Order

On May 26, 2016, Panel B of the Maryland Board issued charges against Dr. Bailey,
based on false responses she provided to questions on her application for reinstatement of her
Maryland medical license! in October 2014, and a determination that she submitted an altered
CME certificate’ with her application. Panel B charged Dr. Bailey with fraudulently attempting
to obtain a license, unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, filing a false report in the
practice of medicine, and making false representations on her reinstatement application, in

' Question 16 on the 2014 reinstatement Application required Dr. Bailey to answer thirteen sub-questions

regarding her character and fitness to practice medicine based on events since her last application. Despite her guilty
pleas to Virginia criminal authorities in 2013 to obtaining drugs by fraud and attempted prescription fraud, Dr.
Bailey falsely answered “NO” to Question 16(g) which asked: Have you committed a criminal act to which you pled
guilty or nolo contendere or for which you were convicted or received probation before judgment? Dr. Bailey also
falsely answered “NO” to Question 16(i) which asked: excluding minor traffic violations, are you currently under
arrest, released on bond, or are there any current or pending criminal charges against you in any court of law? Dr.
Bailey was required to answer “YES” because the Virginia criminal court took her guilty plea to attempted
prescription fraud under advisement in 2013 pending a disposition from the court. Dr. Bailey certified that the
information she provided on her application was true. See 2016 Consent Order, Jf 13-42, pp. 4-10.

2 Dr. Bailey attached a certificate of continuing medical education (“CME”) to her application to show that

she had taken a pediatric review course for 60 CMEs in May 2014. A subsequent investigation by the Board
revealed that Dr. Bailey had altered the CME certificate she submitted with her application and that the actual date
of the course was May 2001. On November 12, 2015, pursuant to a Board subpoena, Dr. Bailey testified under oath
that she falsified the CME certificate.
