 

Janet L. Wasson, M.D.

 

Qpke whte (8 2017

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215-2299

RE: Permanent Surrender of Medical License
License Number: D44979
Case Number: 7715-0064 A

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

| have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D44979, effective immediately. |
understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give medical advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as
it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. II (“Health Occ. Il”), §§ 14-101 et seq., (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.) and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Permanent
Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Permanent Surrender is a PUBLIC document and
on upon acceptance by Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the “Board”) becomes a FINAL ORDER of the Board.

| acknowledge that on March 10, 2015, | entered into a Consent Order to resolve
charges of professional incompetence, constituting a violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-
410(a)(4), and failure to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical
and surgical care, constituting a violation of Health Occ. II § 14-404(a)(22). Under the
terms of the Consent Order, | was reprimanded and placed on probation for two years.
| was required to successfully complete a Board-approved remedial course in medical
documentation. | was also required to successfully complete a Board-approved
remedial course in pain management because | had shifted the focus of my practice
from surgery to pain management. In addition, | was required to undergo a peer review.
