Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Janet L. Wasson., M.D.

License Number: D44979; Case Number: 7715-0064A

Page 3

of this Letter of Surrender, and in any response to any inquiry, that | have surrendered
my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in the event | apply for a license
in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of Permanent Surrender and the
underlying investigative documents may be released or published by Panel A to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014), and that this Letter of Permanent
Surrender is considered a disciplinary action by the Board.

| affirm that on or before the date of Panel A's acceptance of this Letter of
Permanent Surrender, | will provide to Board staff my original Maryland medical license,
number D44979 drug dispensing permit and my most recent renewal license issued by
the Board. | also affirm that | will provide access to and copies of patient medical
records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

| further recognize and agree that my tendering this Letter of Permanent
Surrender, my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, | agree |
have no right to reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. |
further agree that the Board or a disciplinary panel is not obligated to consider any
application for licensure that | might file at a future date.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Permanent Surrender in part
or in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have
consulted with an attorney before signing this Letter of Permanent Surrender. |
understand both the nature of Panel A's actions and this Letter of Permanent Surrender
fully. | acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the language, meaning, and
terms and effect of this Letter of Permanent Surrender. | make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.

Sincerely,

Stow (. Wassim wip

Janet L. Wasson, M.D
