Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
Re: Janet L. Wasson., M.D.

License Number: D44979; Case Number: 7715-00644

Page 2

| understand that upon acceptance of this Letter of Permanent Surrender by Panel A,
the terms and conditions of the March 10, 2015 Consent Order are terminated as moot
and have no further force or effect.

| further acknowledge that on April 25, 2017, Panel A summarily suspended my
medical license after concluding, based on the results of the peer review, that |
prescribed excessive quantities of Controlled Dangerous Substances (“CDS”) without
medical justification and that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively required
emergency action. On May 11, 2017, Panel A held a post-deprivation hearing at which |
had the opportunity to argue why the summary suspension should not continue. After
consideration of the presentation of the parties, Panel A reaffirmed and continued the
summary suspension. | did not appeal the summary suspension of my medical license.
| understand that upon acceptance of this Letter of Permanent Surrender by Panel A,
the summary suspension imposed by Panel A on April 25, 2017 and affirmed on May
11, 2017, will be terminated as moot.

| further acknowledge that on June 12, 2017, Panel A issued disciplinary charges
against me. Specifically, the charges alleged that | had engaged in unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine, constituting a violation of Health Occ. |I § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii), am professionally, physically or mentally incompetent, constituting a
violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(4) and failed to meet appropriate standards as
determined for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care, constituting a violation
of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(22). In addition to the concerns regarding my excessive
prescribing of CDS, Panel A had reason to believe that | had continued to prescribe
CDS to numerous patients after the summary suspension of my medical license, in
violation of Health Occ. Il § 14-601. | have decided to surrender my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of these disciplinary
charges now pending before Panel A. The Charges are attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Attachment A.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of Panel A's Charges. if this
case were to proceed to a hearing, | agree that the State would be able to prove the
Charges, and for purposes related to medical licensure, these Charges will be treated
as if proven. | understand that by executing this Letter of Permanent Surrender, | am
waiving any right to contest the Charges in a formal evidentiary hearing at which | would
have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses
on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that Panel A will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Databank

2
