In keeping with a physician’s ethical obligations to avoid inappropriate behavior, a
physician who has reason to believe that nonsexual, nonclinical contact with a
patient may be perceived as or may lead to romantic or sexual contact should
avoid such contact.

Code of Medical Ethics Opinion 9.1.2 (2016) - Romantic or Sexual Relationships
with Key Third Parties.

Patients are often accompanied by third parties who play an integral role in the
patient-physician relationship, including, but not limited to, spouses or partners,
parents, guardians, or surrogates. Sexual or romantic interactions between
physicians and third parties such as these may detract from the goals of the
patient-physician relationship, exploit the vulnerability of the third party,
compromise the physician’s ability to make objective judgments about the
patient’s health care, and ultimately be detrimental to the patient’s well-being.

Third parties may be deeply involved the in the clinical encounter and in medical
decision making. The physician interacts and communicates with these individuals
and often is in a position to offer them information, advice, and emotional support,
The more deeply involved the individual is in the clinical encounter and in

medical decision making, the stronger the argument against sexual or romantic
contact between the physician and a key third party. Physicians should avoid
sexual or romantic relations with any individual whose decisions directly affect
the health and welfare of the patient.

For these reasons, physicians should refrain from sexual or romantic interactions
with key third parties when the interaction would exploit trust, knowledge,
influence, or emotions derived from a professional relationship with the third party
or could compromise the patient’s care.

Before initiating a relationship with a key third party, physicians should take into
account:

1. The nature of the patient’s medical problem and the likely effect on patient
care.

The length of the professional relationship.

The degree of the third party’s emotional dependence on the physician.

The importance of the clinical encounter to the third party and the patient,
Whether the patient-physician relationship can be terminated in keeping with
ethics guidance and what implications doing so would have for patient.

wPwWwn
