 

I found that the Respondent downplayed his proficiency in Spanish in order to support
the argument that he either could not have said the things that were alleged, or that he could have
easily said something he did not mean. The Respondent testified that after five years in the
United States, he was able to complete an undergraduate degree at a university in the United
States. He stated that two years after college, he felt proficient in English. He also proudly
testified about his dedication to learning the Spanish language including taking multiple college
courses in Spanish, attending mission trips in Spanish-speaking countries at least three times a
year for the past sixteen years where he speaks Spanish as much as possible, and speaking with
his patients in Spanish for at least the past ten years. Additionally, he attends a church in the

_ Hispanic community, In comparing the amount of time it took him to become proficient in the
English language, it is unreasonable to conclude his Spanish proficiency, after more than sixteen
years of regular practice, does not include such words as breast, husband, fifteen-year-old,
happy, and large, or that he could unintentionally stumble into saying, “you have the breasts of a
fifteen-year old” or “your large breasts must make your husband very happy” during a routine
breast exam where the dialogue is presumably routine and repetitive. The Respondent testified
that the conversations he has during these’exams are routine and include “the same sentences
I’ve been saying for years.” (Transcript Vol. II, pg. 23). tt is impossible to fathom, in these
routine and brief exchanges, that after more than ten years the Respondent would unintentionally
make unprofessional comments in Spanish and not realize his mistake. His concerted effort to
diminish his Spanish ability to support his position, raises questions about his credibility overall.

Similar to Ms. | testimony, the Respondent testified that he could not remember
the exams with either M.P.D. or M.S.A.O., but based his conclusions concerning the allegations

on the premise that he would never perform a breast exam without Ms SEE presence, and

23
