 

He came to the United States with his family when he was fourteen years old, He attended
eighth grade and completed high school and college in the United States. He became more
comfortable with the Eriglish language during his second year of college, and then completed
medical school in an English-language program. He testified that he also speaks Spanish and
described his proficiency as being at a first or second grade level. (Transcript Vol. II, pg. 21).
He explained that he took some Spanish language classes in college in the 1970s. The
Respondent opened his medical practice in 1997. He obtained a contract with the several
months later and realized that most of = patients spoke only Spanish. To better facilitate .
his communication with those patients, he took Spanish language courses at Frederick .
Community College. In 2004, he started going on mission trips with his church to Spanish-
speaking countries including Guatemala and the Dominican Republic, and was once abroad for

_ forty days. He also attends a church in the Hispanic community. (Bd. Ex. 19, pg. 186).

The Respondent explained that his primary practice is in internal medicine as a primary
care physician, but that he also provides a weight loss program and, prior to losing the contract in
2018, the rest of his practice involved thelflMland another similar program, thel.°

The Respondent explained that Ms. is the Registered Nurse, the receptionist, and
runs everything in the medical office, including acting as the chaperone during breast and -
cervical exams. He stated that since his medical residency, he understood that if he does any
procedures requiring a female to disrobe, that a chaperone must be present, (Transcript Vol. Hl,
pgs. 29-30, 43). He testified that the concept was “not just training, but common sense.”

(Transcript Vol. Il, pg. 30). The. Respondent acknowledged that he does not have any

 

0 is a EEE Department program providing free colo-rectal exams and colonoscopies for
low-income patients.

21
