 

 

that he would not have made the statements in front Ms. Higa ccause she would have known,
even if they were made in Spanish. However, as addressed previously, the Record is clear that
despite the Respondent’s belief that it is unprofessional to perform a breast exam without a
chaperone, there was a time when it was done in thé Respondent’s practice, or at least a time
when the policy was not strictly followed. The Record is also clear that Ms. would not /
have necessarily understood the alleged statements if they were made in Spanish. - Further, it is
highly likely that Ms SE would have been distracted during an exam because she is
responsible for many things in the office and multi-tasks, even bringing a phone into the exam
room to take calls. If Ms. cre on the phone during an exam, there is little likelihood that
she would have also been able to recognize phrases that were being said in Spanish. |

There were other inconsistencies between the Respondent’s testimony and his previous
interview with Ms. Dicken which was given under oath. In that interview, the Respondent
explained, “I have.an extensive amount of Spanish patients other than the a program.” (Bd.
Ex. 19, pg. 186). In testimony at the hearing, the Respondent said that without the mam
contract, Spanish speaking patients make up “zero percent” of his practice. (Transcript Vol. I,
pg..67). This is a small discrepancy, but illustrates the Respondent’s inability to accurately
describe and characterize his practice. Problems with the Respondent’s characterizations
continue with his explanation of his Spanish-language proficiency. The Respondent categorized
his ability to speak Spanish at a “first or second grade level,” or less. (Transcript Vol. IL, pg. 21).
Ms: RR categorized the Respondents ability to be at a “second or third grade level.”
(Transcript Vol. I, pg. 179). It was never clear what metrics either used to come to those
conclusions, but regardless, the words the Respondent was alleged to have said were all basic
_ vocabulary that a physician who regularly speaks to Spanish-speaking patients during breast

. 24 .
