 

had been found in violation of a standard of care in 2004, or of dispensing medication without a
license in 20142 ‘She was likewise not aware that the Department had
filed the Complaint against the Respondent in 2018. Finally, she admitted that [ERNE does
not have a protocol or procedure in place to receive a complaint from its participants.

Ms SRS testimony was credible, She spoke from her experience and credibly
offered her impressions of the Respondent based on her interactions with him. It is important to
note, that to compare Ms. BR exrerience with that of M.P.D. and M.S.A.O, they are
clearly members of different demographics. Specifically, demographics that can factor into the
analysis of a power dynamic, as is important in the overall analysis of this case. Ms. —
appeared to be a Caucasian woman with blonde hair and blue eyes. ‘She is English speaking and
quite a bit younger than either M.P.D. or M.S.A.0. Ms oes also not a participant in a
service providing free and reduced medical exams, so she more likely than not had a greater
choice in selecting her medical providers. For all of these reasons, I do not find her particular
experience to give much insight into the Respondent’s overall demeanor with non-English
speaking Hispanic woman who are participants in a program for free medical care. However,
Ms. RR interactions go beyond her personal experience as his patient, but also include her
daughter’s experience, and any feedback she has received from the [EJ participants who
have seen him. It appears the Respondent has been positively involved with the program
because there have not been any complaints against the Respondent from HE te ferred
patients; however, Ihave also considered the fact that does not have a protocol or

mechanism for receiving complaints from patients referred to the Respondent. : Additionally, the

 

° Facts about the prior charges and dispositions were allowed, over the Respondent’s objection, for the purposes of
assessing a penalty, and will be addressed in greater detail later in the decision.

18
