 

appointments, triages patients, does EKGs, preps patients for exams, and acts as the chaperone
when the Respondent performs certain exams. Ms $B estifiea that she understands basic
Spanish and would have known if the Respondent had said the alleged statements in Spanish to
the patients while she was in the room. She specifically demonstrated that she knows the words
breast, fifteen, large and the phrase, your husband is very happy in Spanish. (Transcript Volume
I, pgs. 171, 198). She testified that she cannot recall any time that the Respondent had
performed an exam on a female patient who had to disrobe without her presence as a chaperone.
She declared that she would never allow a breast exam to occur without her presence because she
is the chaperone. (Transcript, Volume I, pgs. 173, 182-183, 192, 194, 195-197).

On crogs-examination Ms. mg ecknowledged that it was in her best interest for the
Respondent to have his medical license and be able to continue working as a physician as his
practice was her family’s sole source of income. She also acknowledged that she does not
specifically remember the exams of either M.P.D. or M.S.A.O., but based her conclusion that she
was present for their exams on the fact that it is the office policy for her to be there. Ms, Ea
again testified that she would have known if the Respondent made the alleged statements.
Utilizing the Spanish language interpreter that the OAH obtained through Ad Astra, the State’s
counsel asked Ms, RM several questions in Spanish and vs could not understand or
respond to any of the questions. The State’s counsel asked, in Spanish, “when you were a young
girl, your breasts gave pleasure to your husband?” but Ms could not understand and stated
in response, “I’m not familiar with those words.” (Transcript Volume I, pg. 206). Ms.
consistently said that the Respondent had not said the alleged statements during the two breast
exams, but that if he had said those things, it would have been unprofessional. (Transcript
Volume I, pg. 172; 178-179). .

15
