 

10.32.17.02(B)(4). Based on that definition, if the act on its face is verbal or physical conduct of
a sexual nature, it does not appear to require that there be an intent. |

The Board also pointed to the Respondent’s testimony where he stated that, if the
statements were made by a doctor to a patient during a breast exam, they would be
unprofessional and unethical. The Merriam- Webster Dictionary defines “immoral” as __
“conflicting with generally or traditionally held moral principles.” Merriam-Webster-Online
Dictionary. 2020. http://merriam-webster.com (27 September 2020), It defines “unprofessional”

- as “characterized by or conforming to the technical or ethical standards of a profession.” Jd.
Both of these definitions underscore the conclusion that ifthe act on its face would be considered
by a reasonable person to be verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature, there is no
requirement that the actor be shown to have intended that response.

There was a consensus between the witnesses that, if the statements were made, they
would have been unprofessional and problematic. Ms. Ea agreed in her testimony that if she
had heard the Respondent make such a statement, she would be taken aback, would tell the
Respondent that it was inappropriate, and might apologize to the patient. (Transcript Vol. f, ‘pe.
172), Ms. Ea clearly felt the statements were inappropriate because they prompted her to
make a formal report to the program. Ms testified that she would not continue to
send patients to the Respondent if she knew he had made these statements. (Transcript Vol. I,
pgs. 11-12). Finally, Ms ifestitiea that if she heard anything like the alleged statements,

‘she would have immediately made a report to her superiors. (Transcript Vol. II, pg. 105).

Most importantly, the comments affected M.P.D. and M.S.A.0. in a way that harmed .

them by causing them to feel ashamed, uncomfortable and embarrassed. These emotions

continued a year later when they were each prompted to request a different physician. They

30

 
