 

remember elements of both exams. Also, on cross-examination, M.P.D. inaccurately recollected
_ the exact date of the appointment.

I found M.P.D.’s testimony credible. She sat up proudly, provided eye contact to the
attorney questioning her, and did not avoid eye contact with the Respondent, She calmly
admitted when she may have been wrong on specific details rather than becoming upset or
defensive. Her testimony matched that of her 2019 interview by the Board on the details of the

_ sexual harassment, and the details as she first described them to She has
consistently stated that the Respondent told her that her breasts were large, and that her husband
must be happy about her breasts. She has never added additional allegations or facts. She has:
never filed a complaint or taken action against the Respondent. I do not find she has any reason
to embellish or falsify her testimony. I did not find her failure to recollect every detail, or to be
mistaken on some details, to detract from the credibility on her recollection of the Respondent’s
statements to her about her breasts. When she recounted the specific statements, M.P.D. took
deep breaths and appeared ashamed. Her hands shook and she appeared uncomfortable. The
effects that the Respondent’s statements had on M.P.D. clearly continue to today and bolster her
credibility as to their specific nature, The Respondent’s counsel questioned M.P.D. on several
documents that were. written entirely in English. MP.D-s inability to respond to these questions
or answer questions about medical documents and diagrams written in English was confusing
and explained by her inability to read the English language, and did not diminish her credibility.

Molly Dicken

The Board also presented the testimony of Molly Dicken, Compliance Analyst with the |

Board. Ms. Dicken has been employed by the Board for five-and-a-half years. As a compliance

analyst, Ms. Dicken investigates complaints filed with the Board. When the Board received the

1
