 

 

The Respondent also raised the argument that M.P.D. and M.S.A.O. lacked credibility
because they never reported their concerns to the Respondent or Ms ll. He also raised the
argument that M.P.D.’s allegation lacked credibility because her husband had not confronted the

Respondent after she reported the incident to him. M.P.D, and M.S.A.0. both expressed feelings
of embarrassment and shame based on the Respondent’s statements. They were also participants
ina County program providing free medical services that they relied on. It is certainly not a
requirement that a victim, or victim’s family, confront her abuser directly in order for her
allegations to be believed. That is perhaps heightened in the case of a power imbalance as that in
the instant scenario. M.P.D. and M.S.A.0. did not intend to press charges, file a complaint or
seek damages, They only raised the concerns to avoid returning to see the Respondent. Their
motivation in making the reports, consistency in their accusations, and disinterest to seek some
sort of benefit from the report only bolsters their credibility.

There is no question that the statements were made in the practice of medicine. The
statements were made by a physician during breast exams of patients.

The final inquiry is whether it matters to the issues regarding alleged immoral and
unprofessional conduct if the Respondent made the statements with lewd intent. The Respondent
argued that if he did make the statements, it was an accidental and unfortunate mistake caused by
his poor usage of the Spanish language, and never intended as harmful.

The Board offered no direct legal authority to support its contention that the statements
violated sections 14-404(a)(3) (i) and (ii) of the Health Occupations Article. They argued that
intent is not required by the statute if the action itself is immoral or unprofessional. The Board’s
sexual misconduct regulation defines “sexual harassmen as “an unwelcome sexual advance,

request for sexual favor, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.” COMAR

29 |

 
