 

 

Overall, I did not find Ms. a be a credible witness. She had a careful, rehearsed,
robotic quality to her tone and pace. Her responses on cross-examination were evasive and
unintelligible at times. Her testimony never faltered from supporting the Respondent, but her
testimony was often contradicted by other evidence and testimony. The most obvious
contradiction was when she was unable to understand the question stated to her in Spanish which
mirrored one of the alleged statements the Respondent made, despite her testimony that she was
sure she would have known if the Respondent said a similar phrase. She also testified to the
office policy that all breast exams and pap smears were performed in her presence, without

exception, since the time the office opened. i statement that they have always,
steadfastly, followed the policy because it would be improper to do otherwise, was contradicted
by the Respondent in his interview with Ms. Dicken. During that interview, the Respondent
referred to a past similar allegation and stated that the policy was adopted, or at least strictly
adhered to, in response to that prior allegation. The exchange was as follows:

Respondent: It’s a very small room. She would hear. She would see everything I

do. And then, as you mentioned, I’m very paranoid about the [Board of

Physicians] thing after that incident. And I am absolutely paranoid about the

whole female thing. And then we made some changes and my typical practice

does not deviate because I —

Ms. Dicken: What changes did you make after that, I guess?

Respondent: For example, I follow the guidelines as I told you about the breast

exam, the pap smear. And actually, J do not see, I do not go or even talk to

patient until [Ms says they are ready.

Bd. Ex. 19 pg. 186.

 

8 This exchange references a patient allegation previous to those in this case. This previous allegation was not
addressed during the hearing, and reference to jt was redacted. I do not know the facts, including the date, of the
previous allegation as they were redacted. It is my understanding that this allegation was dismissed. 1 did not
consider any facts regarding the previous allegation, or the fact that there was & previous allegation, in making this
decision. : ,

16

 
