George A. Oyler, M.D.

Date: September 27, 2022

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice
Medicine

George A. Oyler, M.D. License Number: D46921
Case Number: 2223-0007

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health
Oce.”) §14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License
Number D46921, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my
license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or
without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the
practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable
laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
I understand that the permanent surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT, and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B’s”) acceptance, becomes
a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board’’).

I acknowledge that the Board received information that I had been
hospitalized for a medical condition and initiated an investigation. I further
acknowledge that on August 11, 2022, Panel B summarily suspended my license.
Specifically, Panel B found that my current medical condition poses a substantial
likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public health, safety or welfare. A copy
of the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine is attached
as Attachment 1. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice

 
