fallopian tubes are open. However, HSG provides only a few angles of the uterus and is prone to
providing false positives, especially with regard to fallopian tube blockages.

Dr. Udoff testified an HSG in Patient 3’s case would be purely diagnostic. If uterine
abnormalities are discovered, then another procedure, a hysteroscopy, would need to be
performed. By performing a hysteroscopy at the outset, a physician could address the
abnormalities during the hysteroscopy (i.e. provide treatment through the hysteroscope). Dr.
Udoff conceded, however, that the hysteroscopy procedure was riskier than the HSG; however,
any risk associated with the hysteroscopy was low. Dr. Udoff did not testify that the
Respondent’s choice of performing the hysteroscopy on Patient 3 was unusual in any way. In his
report, Dr. Udoff noted that the Respondent counselled Patient 3 on her various treatment
options. Thus, Patient 3 could have chosen a different treatment path, Dr. Udoff found the
approach the Respondent took to be reasonable under the circumstances.

On this issue, I give more weight to Dr. Udoff’s opinion than Ido to Dr. Rafi’s. While I
found Dr. Rafi’s concerns to be reasonable and well based in her expertise, she seemed to
constrain her opinion to the issue of whether the hysteroscopy was riskier than the HSG. Her
opinion was a conclusion without much detail. Dr. Udoff provided detailed testimony about the
_ advantages and disadvantages of each procedure. He provided an informed opinion as to why the
Respondent took a reasonable tact in treating Patient 3. [heard no evidence that the hysteroscopy
procedure is rarely or never used by OB/GYNs under the same circumstances as Patient 3.7
further heard no evidence that the hysteroscopy procedure presents a more than minimal risk to
the Patient (from the standpoint of fertility or otherwise). Additionally, Dr. Udoff steadfastly
testified, as a fertility specialist, that he would have sent Patient 3 back to the Respondent until
the Respondent was assured the fibroids and health of Patient 3 were adequate. Patient 3s
records reflect that the Respondent discussed the risks to her fertility in light of her fibroids. Bd.

27
