If the Respondent takes the position that he relies on the pathology report for an accurate
accounting of the fibroids, then his records with regard to Patient 3 should consistently reflect the
pathology report’s findings. They don’t. While it is understood that the specific number of
fibroids removed from Patient 3 might be irrelevant to her overall treatment, that does not
absolve the Respondent of his duty to accurately maintain Patient 3’s records, I find this to be
particularly true with regard to the Respondent's referral to Dr. Udoff, While the specific number
of fibroids may not have been a concern of Dr. Udoff’s with regard to Patient 3, that might not
be the case with regard to other patients. Such a lack of attention to detail if applied to other
patients could be to their detriment. Accordingly, I shall uphold the charge of failure to keep
adequate medical records as it relates to Patient 3.

The charges concerning Patients 1,2, 4, 5,6 and 9

Dr. Rafi examined the charts of Patients 1, 2, 4,5, 6 and 9 (collectively “the suture
patients”) in light of CareFirst’s complaint with regard to the Respondent’s use of non-
absorbable Ethibond sutures in Hysterectomies. Based on Dr. Rafi’s review of the charts, the
Board alleged the Respondent failed to meet the appropriate standards of care with the suture
patients by suturing their vaginal cuffs with non-absorbable (Ethibond) sutures, instead of
absorbable (Vicryl) sutures. The Board alleged the Respondent failed to meet the appropriate
standard of care and grossly overutilized health care services by using Ethibond sutures because
a second procedure was required to remove the Ethibond sutures that involved, among other
things, placing the sutures patients under anesthesia. The Boaid alleged the Respondent grossly
overutilized health care services by billing the suture patients separately for ligation of the
uterine artery when performing their hysterectomies. The Board alleged the Respondent failed to
keep adequate medical records with regard to the suture patients because, during the procedures

to remove the Ethibond sutures, the Respondent billed the suture patients’ insurance for a biopsy

31
