outcomes, established that these activities were consistent with prospective research and did not
constitute either a pilot study or innovation.

Contrary to Dr. Shamoo, Dr. Prentice opined that Dr. MacKoul did not engage in a clinical
investigation or research as defined in the Belmont Report and the federal regulations and was not
required to obtain IRB approval because there was no indication that his use of nonabsorbable
sutures was intended to contribute to generalizable knowledge. In his view, Dr. MacKoul’s
decisions were not motivated by anything but a desire to improve his patients’ outcomes by
lessening the risk of VCD. Dr. Prentice testified that when engaging in innovative therapy, one is
not trying to collect valid scientific data, and the primary intent or motivation must be to benefit
the patient. According to Dr. Prentice, the two objectives in clinical research are to benefit the
patient and to obtain valid scientific data about the efficacy or safety of the particular study, which
is a hoped-for outcome of the research. Dr. Prentice disagreed with Dr. Shamoo that the large
number of patients in Dr. MacKoul’s study required him to obtain IRB approval. Although he
testified that there could be a situation where a surgical innovation is applied to one, ten, or thirty
patients in an emergency, Dr. Prentice provided no specific opinion regarding the two groups of
885 patients operated on by Dr. MacKoul and his partner in the context of innovative therapy.

2. Retrospective and Prospective Research

Dr. Shamoo also distinguished a retrospective from a prospective study. He testified that a
retrospective study does not involve interfering in the daily lives of patients or introducing any
material into them but starts at time zero and looks backwards at existing patient records. As an
example, Dr. Shamoo referenced epidemiologic studies from hospitals requiring permission from
an IRB to review existing case reports and patient records and drawing conclusions on whether

there are certain patterns. On the other hand, in a prospective study, one starts from time zero at

26
