suspension or a revocation. The State, who | afforded the opportunity to provide rebuttal
argument, neither denied nor objected to those assertions and characterizations.

I find a recommendation of a sanction, harsher than a reprimand to be warranted. While I
am recommending several of the charges be dismissed, the ones 1 recommend be upheld
illustrate grave violations by the Respondent. I find the Respondent grotesquely abdicated his
solemn and fundamental duty of trust to his patients, I further find the Board’s previous
reprimands ineffective in curtailing the Respondent’s behavior. If anything, he upped the ante.
This is mystifying given the evidence before me indicates the Respondent, from a technical
standpoint, is a highly skilled, highly competent, highly accomplished, and highly intelligent
physician.

I recommend the Board adopt the following sanctions the State requested:

. That the Respondent be placed on probation for two years;*®

e That the Respondent be prohibited from engaging in any human subject research
for the first year of his probationary period,

« That the Respondent may engage in human subject research during the second
year of probation provided he submit his research protocol and IRB approval to
the Board for review and approval prior to commencing the research;

» That the Respondent must apply for reinstatement at the conclusion of his
probationary period;

¢ That the Respondent participate in an “intensive” in-person tutorial in ethics with
a focus on research ethics, that this tutorial not be included toward the

Respondent’s mandatory continuing education requirement,

 

58 | adopt this requested sanction for two reasons: 1) 1 find it is warranted by the facts and circumstances of this case
and 2) having found the Respondent grossly overutilized health care services with regard to the suture patients in
violation of section 14-404(a)(19) of the Health Occupations Article, I find this is the minimum sanction allowable
under COMAR 10.32.02.10B(19). That regulation also requires a Reprimand as a minimum sanction.

73
