risk. Dr. Rafi suggested other non-invasive procedures as better alternatives to exploring the
condition of the interior of Patient 3’s uterus, She suggested a uterine biopsy ora
hysterosalpingogram (HS G)* as alternatives and opined that those procedures or similarly less
invasive ones would be the standard of care.®

In support of his case, the Respondent called Dr. Udoff as his expert. Dr. Udoff is board
certified in OB/GYN and is a subspecialist in endocrinology and infertility. He completed his
formal training in 1997. He has taught courses on infertility and reproductive issues at the
University of Maryland and the University of Utah. In addition, he has published articles on
infertility issucs.

. Dr. Udoff did not agree that the Respondent breached the standard of quality care by not
referring Patient 3 toa fertility specialist prior to the third surgery. First, Dr. Udoff testified that
management of fibroids takes precedence over fertility. Thus, if the Respondent referred Patient

3 prior to assessing the condition of Patient 3’s uterus, Dr. Udoff would have sent Patient 3 back
to the Respondent so the Respondent could complete that task. Not fully addressing a patient’s
fibroids can result in fertility and conception complications such as miscarriage.

In terms of the procedure used to explore the uterus to determine viability for fertility, Dr.
Udoff opined that the Respondent had several choices. However, he disagreed with Dr. Rafi that

_ PSG would be the preferred procedure. Dr. Udoff testified that HSG is an older technology with

a lower rate of sensitivity and thus a high chance of missing’a clinically significant finding. HSG

is still used and does allow a physician to see inside the uterus, see defects, and see if the
a

25 HISG is “a special x-ray using dye to look at the womb (uterus) and fallopian tubes.” MedlinePlus,
https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003404.htm (last visited Aug. 28, 2019).

26 Prior to calling Dr. Udoff to the stand, Counsel for the Respondent moved to strike Dr. Rafi’s testimony with
regard to HSG and other alternatives to hysteroscopy. Counsel argued Dr. Rafi made no such claim in her report and
the State made no such allegation in its charging document. The State countered, in short, that the charging
document provided the Respondent with adequate notice of the State’s case. I advised the parties I would take the
motion under'advisement and address it in this decision. Having had the opportunity to carefully consider Dr. Rafi’s
testimony I find it to be reasonably in accord with paragraph 33a in the charging document. Accordingly, the
Respondent’s Motion to Strike is denied. .

26
