standard of care. Because the Respondent’s use of Ethibond was not a radical departure from the
standard of care, the numbers of patients in-which. he placed the Ethibond sutures was
. inconsequential (in contradiction to Dr. Shamoo’s testimony).
Dr. Prentice reviewed the Respondent’s testimony to the Board. He took the position that
the Respondent was simply engaging in appropriate surgical innovation. He opined that because

the Respondent claimed he was performing a retrospective study that might lead to a prospective

 

randomized trial in the future, the Respondent need not have obtained IRB approval when he
began to use Ethibond to close the vaginal cuff in October 2013,

The Respondent additionally called Dr. Van der Does.“ Dr. Van der Does testified that |
she began to work for the Respondent in April of 2014 as a consultant, She became the full time
director of research in December of 2014. The Respondent first discussed the issue of his
placement of Ethibond sutures in the vaginal cuff around August or September of 2016. On :
October 10, 2016, she issued a preliminary draft report for internal purposes only to get a sense
of whether Ethibond outperformed Vicryl. Dr. Van der Does and the Respondent then submitted .
an abstract of the Ethibond study to the AAGL.in the Spring of 2017, Although they submitted
the abstract in the Spring of 2017, Dr. Van der Does did not feel the Respondent had enough
Ethibond suture patients to reach a statistically significant sample size. Dr. Van der Does
testified she and the Respondent did not obtain IRB approval prior to submission of the abstract
because she did not feel they needed one. When reviewing the data the research team took care
to de-identify the patients and ensure their anonymity.

Dr. Van der Does and the Respondent received a positive response to their submission of
the abstract to the AAGL. In light of that, they décided to perform a larger. retrospective study on

the Ethibond suture patients. For this larger retrospective study, they sought IRB approval, which

44 Dr, Van der Does is not a medical doctor. She has a Ph.D. in policy analysis with a concentration in statistics and
organizational behavior. ae

46
