placement of the Ethibond sutures. There is no evidence the suture patients knew
they were participants in human subject research.

(n) The offender attempted to hide the error or misconduct from patients or others;

- There is no evidence the Respondent informed the suture patients he was
conducting human subject research on them. -

(i) The offender concealed, falsified or destroyed evidence, or presented false
testimony or evidence;

- There is no evidence the Respondent concealed, falsified or destroyed
evidence. Per the discussion above, I did find certain aspects of the Respondent’s

testimony and certain assertions made by him or attributed to him in the exhibits
not credible.

(j) The offender did not cooperate with the investigation; or
- There is no evidence the Respondent did not cooperate with the investigation
(k) Previous attempts to rehabilitate the offender were unsuccessful.

- The Board previously sanctioned the Respondent. in light of the Respondent's
conduct in this matter, I do not find any previous attempts to rehabilitate the
Respondent to be successful. :

The Respondent’s prior disciplinary history —

The State provided evidence of the Respondent either being disciplined or cautioned by
the Board on three occasions. That evidence is contained in State’s exhibits 45, 46, and 47
(collectively “the discipline exhibits”). I admitted the discipline exhibits into evidence with the
rest of the State’s exhibits. However, at the pre-hearing conference and again at the hearing, I
ruled that 1 would not review or consider those exhibits unless and until I reached the issue of
sanctions. I did not review the discipline exhibits until 1 completed drafting the above discussion .
addressing the State’s charges.

In a consent order signed April 8, 2009, the Board reprimanded the Respondent and fined
him $2,500.00 for failing to report pending disciplinary action against his District of Columbia
medical license on an application for renewal of his Maryland medical license. Bd. Ex 46. On

71
