57105 “Biopsy of Vagina”

Dr. Rafi testified that during the second surgery to remove the Ethibond sutures (second
surgery), the Respondent billed CPT code 57105 for “Biopsy of Vagina.” This signified the
Respondent removed vagina mucosa” during the procedure. Dr. Rafi testified that none of the
suture patients’ records contained a lab report from a pathologist concerning the removal of the
vagina mucosa. Dr. Rafi opined that “biopsy” connotes the sending of the removed tissue to the
pathology lab. The absence of a pathologist’s report corresponding to that biopsy amounts to a
failure to keep adequate medical records on the part of the Respondent.

Dr. Kondrup testified on behalf of the Respondent on this issue. Dr. Kondrup opined that
biopsy simply means removing tissue. Therefore, if the Respondent removed the vagina mucosa,
then he billed the correct code for biopsy of the vagina mucosa. Dr. Kondmup went on to opine
that he rarely, if ever, sends vagina mucosa to pathology unless the patient has a history of
cancer, To send every sample without any suspicion of abnormality would be an unnecessary
cost to the patient. The Respondent testified that he removed the vagina mucosa, but did not send
it to the pathology lab, because the patient would incur an additional $100.00 charge. The
Respondent testified he knows the vagina mucosa derives from the placement of the sutures and
is thus benign. Therefore he did not need to send the vagina mucosa to the pathology lab.

Having reviewed the evidence on this issue, I agree with the Respondent. The
Respondent removed the vagina mucosa as part of the procedure to remove the Ethibond sutures
and billed for its removal. Other procedures at issue in this case involve sending tissue to the
pathologist. For example, Patient 3's myomectomy took place on October 3, 2014, The

Respondent sent Patient 3°g fibroids to the pathologist. The pathologist issued a report on

October 8, 2014. There is no code for “biopsy” of anything in Patient 3’s billing records

ee
32 Granulation tissue that the Respondent removed when removing the Ethibond sutures.

33
