2. The Respondent is a surgeon specializing in OB/GYN surgery and treatment. In
addition, he has training in GYN oncology and through that training, he is skilled in advanced
GYN surgery techniques.

3. The Respondent ig the Director of Innovations Surgery Center (ISC), which he
operates with his partner, Natalya Danilyants, M.D. (Dr. Danilyants). ISC is an ambulatory
surgery center (ASC). It has the facilities and resources available to perform surgeries. However,
it does not have an intensive care unit (ICU), blood bank, or other types of support services. The
Respondent performs GYN surgeries at the ISC. In addition, he has privileges and performs
surgeries moo |

4, The Respondent routinely performs two common GYN surgeries: Myomectomies
and Hysterectomies. A Myomectomy is a surgery to remove fibroids from within a uterus. A
Hysterectomy is a surgery to remove the uterus.!! The Respondent performs approximately 500
Hysterectomies per year. Some of those Hysterectomies involve patients with above average
sized uteri and fibroids.

5. . When performing a Hysterectomy, a GYN surgeon must take measures to
decrease the patient’s risk of bleeding exicessively. ‘The surgeon can approach this issue by
ligating’ the uterine artery. Ligation of the uterine artery (uterine artery ligation) can require the
GYN surgeon to enter the retroperitoneal space} and navigate a variety of blood vessels and

nerves, Typically OBY/GYN surgeons are not trained in this specific procedure. GYN :

ees :

1! Hysterectomies can also include removal of the fallopian tubes and ovaries. °
2 Ligate means to “tie or bind with a ligature.” The Free Dictionary, https://medical-
dictionary. thefreedictionary.com/ligate (last visited Aug. 28, 2019). - , .
3 ‘The Peritoneum is “[t]he serious membrane lining the walls of the abdominal and pelvic cavities (parietal
peritoneum) and investing contained viscera (visceral peritoneum), the two layers enclosing a potential space, the
peritoneal cavity.” The Free Dictionary, https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/peritoneum (last visited
Aug. 28, 2019). The retroperitoneal space is “the space between the peritoneum and the posterior abdominal wall.”
_ The Free Dictionary, https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/retroperitoneal+space (last visited Aug. 6,
2019). : .

12
