The Panel agrees with the ALJ’s conclusion. As Dr. Rafi stated in her peer review report,
absorbable sutures meet the standard of care because non-absorbable sutures carry additional risks
of infection, erosion of the vaginal cuff, scar tissue formation and the costs and risks associated
with a second surgery.* As the ALJ noted in his Proposed Decision, a second surgery includes
added risks including infection, bleeding, vaginal cuff opening, and injury to bowel. None of these
risks would be present without a second surgery.> The Board also agrees that there are additional
risks for leaving sutures in too long for patients who are not cleared for the second surgery.

Dr. MacKoul excepts to the ALJ’s findings. He claims that the ALJ’s findings contain
confused and inconsistent logic. Specifically, he claims that the ALJ erred in making contradictory
findings that (1) Dr. MacKoul’s use of Ethibond sutures was outside the standard of care, but (2)
that using non-absorbable sutures by a surgeon is not a deviation from the standard of care as a
general proposition. Dr. MacKoul misunderstands the ALJ’s finding. The ALJ found that Dr.
MacKoul’s use, in hysterectomies, of the Ethibond non-absorbable sutures was outside the
standard of care because it required a second, unnecessary, surgery. The use of non-absorbable
sutures that would not require a second surgery could be within the standard of care. For example,
Dr. Rafi uses Ethibond sutures in cervical cerclages, a treatment for cervical weakness during
pregnancy, to close the cervix and prevent a fetus from descending early. Dr. Kondrup also used
Ethibond in a procedure for supporting a uterus suspension of the vagina. Neither of those
procedures would require an additional otherwise unnecessary surgery and both Dr. Kondrup and
4 Dr. MacKoul’s Hysterectomy Consent form explained “the benefits of using Ethibond sutures” and the “risks of
not removing the sutures” and the side effect of retained sutures, but did not explain the risks of the additional
surgery or the alternative of absorbable sutures.

8 While not central to the standard of care violation, the Panel agrees with the ALJ that it is questionable about whether
Dr. MacKoul adequately counseled suture patients about the potential complications from the second surgery prior to
the consent related to the first surgery. While the first consent form listed retained sutures as a rare risk, it did not

mention the infection, bleeding, injury to bowel, bladder, ureters, pelvic pain etc. that were listed as risks during the
second surgery.
