Resp. Ex
_ Resp. Ex

Resp. Ex.
Resp. Ex

Resp. Ex

_10 - “Surgery of Female Incontinence,” edited by Stuart L. Stanton.and Emil A.

Tanagho

_ 11 - “Controversies and Innovations in Urological Surgery,” edited by Clive Gingell

and Paul Abrams

12 -“ACOG? Innovative Practice: Ethical Guidelines,” Number 352, December 2006

_ 13 - Ethibond Suture package insert

.14- “Wound Closure Manual,” David L. Dunn, M.D. Ph.D., Jay Phillips Professor and

Chairman of Surgery, University of Minnesota

Resp. Ex. 15 - “Nezhat’s Operative Gynecologic Laparoscopy and Hysteroscopy,” edited by

Resp. Ex

Resp, Ex

Resp. Ex

Resp. Ex.

Resp. Ex

Resp. Ex

Resp. Ex

Resp. Ex

Camran Nezhad et al.

16 - accepted manuscript to appear in The Journal of Minimally Invasive Gynecology

17 - “Minimally Invasive Surgery, Analysis of a Standardized Technique for

Laparoscopic Cuff Closure Following 1924 Total Laparoscopic Hysterectomies,”
Katherine A, O’Hanlan et al. ,

_18 - American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology, May 2018, “Laparoscopic vs.

Transvaginal Cuff Closure Afier Total Laparoscopic Hysterectomy: A
Randomized Trial by the Italian Society of Gynecologic Endoscopy,” Stefano
Uccella, M.D., Ph.D., et al,

_19—-JSLS,’ “Vaginal Cuff Dehiscence: Risk Factors and Associated Morbidities,”

Noga Fuchs, Weizman, MD., et al.

20 - Cureus, “Vaginal Cuff Closure in Minimally Invasive Hysterectomy: A Review of

Training, Techniques, and Materials,” Katherine Smith, Aileen Caceres

_21 - The Journal of Minimally Invasive Gynecology, “Use of Bidirectional Barbed

Suture in Laparoscopic Myomectomy: Evaluation of Perioperative Outcomes,
Safety, and Efficacy,” J. 1. Einarsson, M.D., MPH, et al.

22.- The Journal of Minimally Invasive Gynecology, “The Use of Bidirectional,

Barbed Suture in Laparoscopic Myomectomy and Total Laparoscopic
Hysterectomy,” James A. Greenberg, MLD., et al.

23 - British Journal of Surgery (Abstract), “Meta-Analysis of Techniques for Closure

of Midline Abdominal Incisions,” Van T. Riet M

nC al

7 American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
® Journal of the Society of Laparoscopic Surgeons
