iliac artery and lessening the chances of blood loss makes the procedure safer in the ASC setting.
The Respondent testified that the average weight of auterus is 70 grams.>* However, the uteri he
removes at his ASC are routinely much larger and trickier to ‘address. In addition, the
Respondent asserted that CareFirst allowed the Respondent to place code 37617 in his “ASC
column,” thus allowing him to treat patients at the ASC

The parties agree that 37617 is a code that concerns a procedure whereby a provider
ligates an artery outside the area of the uterus to cut off blood flow to the uterus and safely
perform a hysterectomy. ‘The parties agree that performing this procedure requires specialized
knowledge and training, which the Respondent possesses. The parties further agree that 37617 is
a separate code from the codes associated with hysterectomies. The disagreement between the
parties appears to be a) whether the Respondent’s contract with CareFirst authorized him to bill
37617 in addition to the general hysterectomy codes and b) if so, whether the Respondent's
billing of code 37617 was appropriate under the terms of his contract with CareFirst.

The Respondent submitted his schedules and contracts with CareFirst and other insurers
as Resp. Ex. 35. The schedules in Resp. Ex. 35, which go back to 2009, all include code 37617
as a billable procedure. The exhibit also contains snapshots of searches on CareFirst’s website
from June 20, 2013, showing code 37617 as a billable procedure. Resp. Ex, 35, at 95.-

Paragraph 1.6 of the Respondents contract with CareFirst defines “medically necessary”
as follows: .

MEDICALLY NECESSARY describes the use of a service or supply which is

commonly and customarily recognized as appropriate in the diagnosis and
treatment of a Member’s illness or injury; appropriate with regard to standards of

good medical practice; not solely for the convenience of the member, his or her
physician, Hospital, or other health care provider; and the most appropriate supply

ot level of service which cafi be safely provided to the Member. The decision as .

i

34 The State presented no evidence to contradict this assertion.
35 The Respondent then went on to testify about the cost saving associated with treating patients at the ASC versus
the hospital, I find this testimony, while interesting, to be irrelevant to the issue before me.

36
