second surgery is most likely low, it is still a risk that would not be present with the placement of
Vicryl sutures. | .

The second surgery was clearly more complicated than simple suture removal. All the
suture removal patients required the placement of a Vicryl stitch at the second surgery to stem
bleeding, They all required the preparations similar to the first surgery. They could not shower
for twenty-four hours after the surgery.*® They all required the insertion of an IV.‘? I find
exposing the suture patients to the second surgery exposed them to the risks associated with any
surgery (e.g, infection). I do not find the simple choice of non-absorbable over absorbable
suturcs by‘a surgeon to be a deviation from the standard of quality care as a general proposition.
The deviation from the standard of quality care is manifested in the need for the second surgery -
and the risks associated with that surgery. .

The Respondent presented no evidence of any analogous instances that have not been
found to be departures from the standard of quality care—not just in GYN surgery but any
surgery. The Respondent presented articles on the issuc of suture choice. I found the opinions in
some of those articles somewhat contradictory to the Respondent’s position. For example, in an
article entitled “Vaginal Cuff Closure after Laparascopic Total Hysterectomy,” the authors write
that the ideal suture for closing the vaginal cuff should “be absorbable, but maintain reasonable
tensile strength for at least 2 to 4 weeks.”°° Resp. Ex. 27, at 145. In an article entitled “Advances
in Suture Material for Obstetric and Gynecologic Surgery,” the authors discuss the challenges
faced with suturing the vaginal cuff. They go on to write:

Given these variables, the ideal suture for vaginal cuff closure should inhibit

bacterial growth, elicit minimal tissue reactivity, be pliable, and maintain a
reasonable amount of tensile strength for at least 2 to 4 weeks even though

 

48 See, e.g., Bd. Ex. 8, at PM 3749.
49 See,-e¢.g., id. at PM 3750.

50 Dr, Kondrup testified that Vicry] usually breaks down around six weeks. But he has seen it last longer or shorter
than that. Tr. vol. 4, at 533-34. .

50
