Dr. MacKoul described the document as a manuscript of ongoing research on a comparison of
vicryl to ethibond suture closure of the vaginal cuff at hysterectomy. He explained that the current
study was exploratory in nature and the aim of the study was to compare the risk of cuff breakdown
using absorbable versus nonabsorbable sutures for vaginal cuff closure. On May 1, 2017, the Board
conducted a sworn interview with Dr. MacKoul at which he was represented by counsel. (St. Exh.
2, PM 3618-PM3628)

In his manuscript and testimonial interview, Dr. MacKoul labeled his activities from
October 1, 2013 to October 1, 2016 as retrospective. He also stated that he and another surgeon in
his two-physician practice performed hysterectomies on 885 private patients and collected and
extracted detailed statistical data for that three-year period from a database that was prospectively
maintained. With respect to materials and methods, he indicated that Vicryl was selected as the
absorbable suture for one group of patients and Ethibond as the nonabsorbable suture for a separate
group, with one surgeon predominantly using Ethibond and the other using Vicryl.

In the manuscript, Dr. MacKoul’s research director, Louise van der Does, Ph.D., reported
study results for each group by suture type. She referred to data statistics, performance of statistical
analyses, and study outcomes for each group, and noted patient demographic characteristics,
operative outcomes, vaginal cuff complications and VCD and clinical data of patients with cuff
breakdown. Dr. van der Does also reported that the strengths of the study included the high number
of cases, similar patient populations, all patients undergoing the same mode of 2-port, laparoscopic
retroperitoneal hysterectomy, and the same mode of closure, all of which made possible a direct
comparison between suture materials for the three-year study period.

During his interview, Dr. MacKoul reiterated that they started to use Ethibond for vaginal

cuff closure in 2013. He testified that by doing such a large trial, they were identifying whether

21
