*

conjunction with the uterine artery, he or she would still not bill a separate code for the ligation,
because the ligation is still a required part of the procedure.

The Respondent called Dr. Kondrup and Terri Welter (Ms. Welter), a principal at ECG
Management, a consulting firm for the healthcare industry. Dr. Kondrup explained the procedure ,
associated with the ligation of the abdominal artery and vaguely testified that he reviewed the
Respondent’s billing contracts and agreed with them. Ms. Welter testified she assists with
managed care contract negotiations and deals with relationships between providers and payors.

Ms, Welter testified that the Respondent engaged her.firm in the summer of 2016 to assist
in contract negotiations with insurers, including CareFirst. During the negotiations, she
performed a “look back” to 2010 at the procedures for which the Respondent billed. The “look ~
back” included procedures the Respondent billed to CareFirst. Ms. Welter explained that codes
in the 50,000 range concern OB/GYN procedures and codes in the 30,000 range concern cardiac
procedures. It is not common for an OB/GYN specialist such as the Respondent to use codes in
the 30,000 range. However, in performing the look back, Ms. Welter discovered that the
Respondent treats complex cases and his contracts historically allowed him to bill code 37617. In
particular, Ms. Welter testified, “So as I understood, -- there’s very complex cases where you
would have large fibroid tumors that would require for ligation of the artery to be done in a
separate space.” Tr. vol. 5, at 633. Ms. Welter further testified that under the National Correct
Coding Initiative (NCC), billing code 37617 with code 58554 or other hysterectomy codes was
allowable.

The Respondent provided a somewhat different rationale for performing the ligation of
the abdominal artery and billing code 37617 as a separate procedure. The Respondent testified
that he ligates the internal iliac artery when performing hysterectomies at his ASC. The ASC
does not-have a blood bank or an JCU and thus taking the extra precaution of ligating the internal

35
