November 7, 2017 response to the Board, the Respondent characterizes Dr. Danilyants as the
“control arm of the study.” Bd. Ex. 42, at 2. The Respondent referred to Dr. Danilyants in the
same manner in his May 1, 2017 sworn statement to the Board. Bd. Ex. 2, at PM 3624. Thus, the
Respondent started at point zero (October 2013), identified a variable (the Ethibond patients at
his ASC), and a control variable (the Viery! patients treated by Dr. Danilyants Ss.
The Respondent then allowed three years to pass while he placed Ethibond sutures in 595
patients, subjecting them to a second surgery (and its associated risks). He neither informed those
patients they were the subject of research nor did he obtain-their consent to be the subjects of
research.

Both Dr. Shamoo and Dr. Prentice agreed a practitioner would require IRB review prior

_ to engaging in a prospective study. The issue becomes whether the Respondent engaged in a
prospective study in October of 2013. On that issue, I am more persuaded by Dr. Shamoo’s
opinion than Dr. Prentice’s opinion. I find that Dr. Prentice accepted the Respondent’s
representations of his intentions at face value. For example, in his report Dr. Prentice states he
finds it “clear” that the Respondent never engaged ina prospective study. Resp. Ex. 4, at 4.
However, he provides no opinion on the Respondent's actions in October 2013 (ie, setting up a
cohort of Ethibond patients and a control cohort of Vicryl patients). A prime example of Dr.
Prentice using the Respondent’s representations as the basis for his opinion is contained in the
following exchange between the State and Dr. Prentice:
Q. And if you look at the bottom of page 36 of

the transcript, he responds -- Dr. MacKoul responds, we

figured it would take three years by looking at the

volume. We are just trying to see if we can stop it

further or have it extend, if required. But now we're all

using Vicryl -- I’m using Vicryl. Do you see that?

So, is -- so, is it still your contention that this
is a retrospective study of existing data?

56
