as to how the issue of the Ethibond sutures would be relevant to the referring physician. I
contrast this with the issue of Patient 3’s medical records. With regard to Patient 3, the
Respondent actually provided inaccurate information to a physician to whom he was referring -
Patient 3. That is a different scenario, The records for Patients 1 and 4 did not contain signed
consent forms. However, the records for those patients do contain statements that the Respondent
discussed the procedure with them.>3 Accordingly, I shall recommend the charge of failure to
keep adequate medical records with regard to the suture patients be dismissed.

In his response to the Board, the Respondent claiined he was conducting a study on
whether the placement of Ethibond sutures 5 decreased the incidence of VCD. The question before
me is whether the Respondent should have obtained IRB approval prior to commencing the
study. Having considered the evidence and testimony of the experts, I find the Respondent
conducted prospective human subject research beginning in October 2013 when he began.
placing Ethibond sutures in his hysterectomy patients at his ASC. I further find that the
Respondent, at that time, intended for his research to eventually be submitted for publication to
enhance the general knowledge of the medical community. I find the Respondent should have,

-but did not, obtain IRB approval when he commenced his research in October 2013. The
. Respondent took two basic positions on this issue: 1) that he was performing innovation to
improve the overall results of his practice and 2) that his study was a retrospective, not
prospective study. Having reviewed the Respondent’s testimony and the evidence presented,
find neither position credible.
On or around October 2013, I find the Respondent formulated in his mind, the intent to
create a specific cohort of Ethibond patients. He specifically arranged to have the Ethibond

patients treated at his ASC while Dr. Danilyants treated the Vicryl patients ot Tn his

ne

53 Whether the Respondent provided adequate information to the Patients, | find, is a different issue.
55
