physician. Dr. Fitzpatrick testified that he has worked as a surgeon for over thirty years. As of
the date he testified, Dr. Fitzpatrick was the chairman of surgery ii Part
of Dr. Fitzpatrick’s duties as chairman of surgery concern reviewing the conduct of members of
his staff, a duty he has performed for thirty ‘years.

With regard to the Respondent’s statement to Patient 10 about “overkill,” Dr. Fitzpatrick
opined that the Respondent did not act unprofessionally in making the comment. Dr. Fitzpatrick
testified that he would expect any physician in the State of Maryland to provide their honest
opinion about a matter concerning the Patient’s welfare. He further testified that the term
“overkill? is a generic term used by physicians when they believe a patient is receiving more care
than required. Finally, Dr. Fitzpatrick opined that transfers fromn hospital to hospital are not
uncommon. Physicians often wish to see their own patients since they are most familiar with
them. However, Dr. Fitzpatrick added on cross examination that when transferring patients, he
tends to stress the positive aspects of the new hospital and refrains from disparaging the old
hospital. . .

. The Respondent testified he did not specifically recall making the “overkill” comment,
but did not deny making it. On the date Patient 10 was transferred to ne cu, she
was diagnosed upon transfer with an abscess. The Respondent needed to consider various
‘options to address Patient 10’s condition. However, when he arrived reviewed
Patient 10’s chart, the Respondent found no signs of the presence of an abscess, He opined that
Patient 10 more likely suffered from a hematoma. He testified that after a myomectomy, it is not
uncommon to accidentally diagnose an abscess instead of a hematoma.” A hematoma requires
less aggressive treatment than an abscess, thus when the Respondent saw Patient 10 being treated

for an abscess as opposed to a hematoma, he remarked the treatment was “overkill.”

eel

9 The Respondent defined abscess as “technically a collection of puss. It’s an infection and it can be a severe
infection.” He defined hematoma as “a collection of blood.” Tr. vol. 5, at 743.

22
