Order, the Panel also adopts the ALJ's discussion on pages 19-28, 31-32, 41-46 and 55-76 of the
Proposed Decision. The factual findings were proven by a preponderance of the evidence.

CONSIDERATION OF EXCEPTIONS

 

Throughout his written and oral exceptions, and his response and reply to the State’s
response to the exceptions, Dr. MacKoul excepts generally to the ALJ’s findings that he failed to
meet standards of quality care, grossly overutilized health care services, engaged in unprofessional conduct
in the practice of medicine, failed to keep adequate medical records, and violated federal regulations and
the Maryland human subject research statute.

L Ethibond Sutures and Standard of Care Requirements

Of the nine patient charts reviewed by the State’s peer reviewers, Dr. MacKoul performed
a hysterectomy on six of those patients, Patients 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, and 9. The removal of the uterus in
a hysterectomy procedure creates an opening between the interior of the vagina and the portion of
the body cavity where the uterus was once located. This opening is the vaginal cuff. A surgeon
must suture the vaginal cuff closed to prevent the contents of the body cavity, such as the bowels,
from entering the vagina. If the vaginal cuff reopens, the complication is called vaginal cuff
dehiscence (VCD).> In most hysterectomies from 2013 until 2016, Dr. MacKoul used non-
absorbable Ethibond sutures when closing the vaginal cuff. He claimed to do so to prevent VCD.
The ALJ reviewed testimony from the State’s expert, Dr. MacKoul’s expert, and Dr. MacKoul
himself and found that his use of non-absorbable sutures violated the standard of care because the
non-absorbable Ethibond sutures required a second surgery that would not have been necessary

had the Vicryl absorbable sutures been used.

3 Vaginal cuff dehiscence (“VCD”) is a relatively rare but serious post-operative complication after a laparoscopic
hysterectomy that can cause breakdown of the vaginal cuff or closure and lead to the expulsion of abdominal pelvic
contents through the vaginal opening. This complication requires emergent surgical intervention. In his Board
interview, Dr. MacKoul stated that the rates of suture breakdown in his high-volume practice are about one to two
percent. (PM3620, Tr. 7; PM3625, Tr. 25)
