In addition, I find the State had nothing to rebut. Had Ms. Welter and the Respondent
testified as to the specific contents of the 2015 peer review on direct examination by
Respondent’s counsel, that might be the case. However, they provided no such testimony. The
Respondent’s testimony on this issue was, for the most part, consistent with his written response
to the Board, which the State had the opportunity to review well in advance of the hearing. Bd.
Ex: 42. In light of that, the State could have presented the evidence in its case in chief.

As stated above, the Respondent had a contract to bill code 37617. In light of the
evidence presented, there is nothing in the record to lead me to believe he inap propriately billed
code 37617 with regard to the suture patients. I only find evidence of some vague contractual
dispute between the Respondent and CareFirst. Accordingly, I shall recommend the charges with
regard to code 37617 be dismissed.

The placement of the Ethibond Sutures

The State’s Case

Dr, Rafi testified that her review of the charts revealed that the Respondent used non-
absorbable Ethibond sutures to close the vaginal cuffs of the suture patients after performing
their hysterectomies. Dr. Rafi opined that since at least 1996, the standard of care in suturing the
vaginal cuff was the use of absorbable sutures, in particular absorbable Vicry! sutures. The ©
reason the standard of care is to use absorbable as opposed to non-absorbable sutures concerns
the necessity of having the patient return for a second surgery. Dr. Rafi noted that the second
surgery required most?® of the suture patients to undergo Monitored Anesthesia Care (MAC)
which, while not rendering the patients as unconscious as general anesthesia (which is the

highest level of anesthesia), still placed the patients in “twilight sleep” and not far from the level

A

38 As noted in the chart above, Patient-2 underwent general anesthesia due to the Respondent performing certain
additional procedures unrelated to the removal of the Ethibond sutures. Patient 5 underwent IV, which is less than
general anesthesia, and Patient 9 underwent MASK which is less than general. .

40
