Patient 10 was in obvious distress. However, viewing the Respondent’s particular
comments from a purely objective standpoint, J do not find they rise to the level of
unprofessional care in the practice of medicine. Accordingly, I shall recommend the charges with
regard to Patient 10 be dismissed.

The charges concerning Patient 3

CareFirst’s complaint to the Board focused on the Respondent’s use of Ethibond sutures
in Hysterectomies, However, when reviewing the ten patient records, Dr. Rafi, the Board’s peer.
reviewer, raised concerns unrelated to CareFirst’s complaint. Those concerns resulted in the
charges related to Patient 3. The Respondent performed three procedures on Patient 3 to address
uterine fibroids and some associated complications. However, he left her uterus intact. Dr. Rafi’s
review raised the following concerns: 1) that the Respondent performed three surgeries on
Patient 3 without first addressing her fertility concerns (failure to ‘maintain the standard of quality
care) and 2) that the Respondent inaccurately counted and measured the fibroids he removed
from Patient 3’s uterus (failure to keep adequate medical records).

The issue of Patient 3’s Fertility .

On September 11, 2014, the Respondent performed an ultrasound of Patient 3’s uterus.
That ultrasound revealed eleven fibroids varying in size from two to five centimeters. On
October 3, 2014, the Respondent performed a myomectomy on Patient 3 and removed fibroids.”

" The Respondent then saw Patient 3 for a follow-up visit on October 22, 2014. At that time he
advised Patient 3 that a hysteroscopic evaluation of her uterus would be necessary to rule out,
among other things, adhesions to the uterus. The Respondent also discussed with Patient 3, at.

length, the risks to her fertility associated with treatment of her fibroids.** On January 16, 2015, :

 

23 The amount and weight of fibroids removed shall be specifically addressed in the portion of this discussion
concerning the Respondent’s failure to keep adequate medical records with regard to Patient 3.
24 Bd. Ex. 14, at PM 3886.

24
