waiting because he was involved in another surgery, a claim that was found to be untrue based on
an examination of the timing of the surgeries (objective fact) and the testimony of other witnesses.
St. Exh. 47.

The Panel agrees with the ALJ that a familiar theme of Dr. MacKoul’s prior disciplinary
history involved a liberal application of “alternative facts” in explaining his unprofessional actions
and a failure to provide truthful, relevant information to the Board as required on his licensure
renewal application. His actions in this case are consistent with the patterns of unprofessionalism
and dishonesty apparent in Dr. MacKoul’s prior misconduct. The Panel has taken into
consideration that one of the aggravating factors when determining a sanction is that “[pjrevious
attempts to rehabilitate the offender were unsuccessful.” COMAR 10.32.02.09 B(6)(k). As he did
in 2009 and 2014, Dr. MacKoul continues to violate the professional norms of his profession and
has shown no meaningful understanding of or commitment to ethical practice. In keeping with its
mission, the Board’s obligation is to protect the welfare of the public, and the imposition of
progressive discipline is a disciplinary tool essential to the Board’s mission.

Based on Dr. MacKoul’s successive violations, and his demonstrated propensity for
dishonest behavior and explanations, it is apparent that the Board’s previous attempts to
rehabilitate him were unsuccessful, and that he has learned little or nothing from the Board’s
remedial efforts. The Panel will not ignore its deterrent function in this case. The Panel will impose
a suspension for one month, probation for a minimum of two years, and a $50,000 fine. To address
the Panel’s specific concerns regarding Dr. MacKoul’s violation of the governing human subject
research laws, he is required to take and successfully complete an ethics course with a focus on
ethical issues and human participant protections in human subject research. Dr. MacKoul is

prohibited from engaging in any human subject research during the first year of probation. He may

32
