based upon by any medical expertise. Dr. MacKoul himself testified that his surgical center
performs hysterectomies up to 5,000 to 7,000 grams and gives an example of a 2,000-gram uterus
as a “very large” uterus.

Ultimately this issue is quite simple. Dr. MacKoul billed for ligating the artery, but this
ligation was a standard and essential part of the hysterectomy. While most of the uteri removed
were larger than an average healthy uterus, most were less than the 250-gram billing code that he
billed under or the average uterus that he removed through this procedure. None were thousands
of grams or otherwise in the range of large uteri for which a complex billing code would be
justified. The Panel finds that Dr. MacKoul’s separate billing for ligation of the artery is
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

IV. Biopsy of Vaginal Mucosa

As part of the second surgery to remove the non-absorbable Ethibond sutures, Dr. MacKoul
billed for three procedures: (1) “Destroy Vag[inal] Lesions Complex,” (2) “Biopsy of Vagina
[Mucosa],” and (3) “Remove Vaginal Foreign Body.” The State’s expert, Dr. Rafi, explained that
the removal of the suture accounted for the third billing code, and understood that “there must have
been some incising, cutting, in order to remove a suture” explaining the first billing code, but did
not find a justification for the second billing code “Biopsy of Vagina [Mucosa].” She testified that
“biopsy” is removal of tissue to be evaluated, and Dr. MacKoul charged $500 for the biopsy, but
never sent it to a pathology laboratory for any evaluation. Dr. MacKoul acknowledged in his
response to the peer reviewers that he did not send the tissue to pathology. He explained that the
granulation tissue was a known reaction and sending it to pathology would only mean increasing
the cost to the patient. Dr. MacKoul’s expert, Dr. Kondrup testified that “biopsy” is “removing

the tissue,” and did not mention the requirement that the tissue be sent for evaluation. The ALJ

12
