June 3, 2014, the Board reprimanded the Respondent and ordered he complete a Board approved
intensive course on physician-patient interactions. Bd. Ex. 47. The June 3, 2014 order arose out
of an incident where the Board found the Respondent failed to adequately counsel a patient to
see a urologist prior to surgery, failed to review the patient’s chart for pre-surgical clearance,
failed to adequately communicate with that patient and her family the day of her surgery about
delays in the surgery, and became abusive and combative toward that patient and her family. On
June 15, 2015, the Board sent the Respondent a letter advising him of its closure of an
investigation stemming from another patient’s complaint. Bd. Ex 45. The Board, however,
cautioned the Respondent to be aware of a certain complication that can arise from laparoscopic
abdominal myomectomies. .

In reviewing the Respondent’s prior disciplinary history, a familiar theme emerges. Both
of the Respondent’s reprimands involve either failing to provide information he knew or should
have known to provide (his false assertion on his application to renew his Maryland license) or a
liberal application of “alternative facts” when explaining his actions to the Board.

For example, according to the June 3, 2014 reprimand, the Respondent asserted he could
not avoid keeping the patient waiting because he was involved in another surgery. However, the
Board found that not to be true based upon an examination of the timing of the surgeries (an
objective fact) and the testimony of other. witnesses. I find the Respondent’s representations to
the Board in this case, especially on the issue of his Ethibond study, to be in line with some of
the behavior for which the Board previously reprimanded him.

In his closing statement, Counsel for the Respondent implored me not to recommend the
Board place the Respondent on probation. He argued that if placed on probation, the Respondent
would, among other things, lose his board certifications and have his contracts with insurers
voided. In essence, the net effect on the Respondent’s livelihood would be no different than

72
