six weeks, However, that dissolution can occur more quickly, thus increasing the risk of VCD.
Dr. Kondrup has explored the use of other sutures in closing the vaginal cuff. However, the
sutures he does use ate all absorbable, and he has never used Ethibond sutures in closing the .
vaginal cuff'! because they require a second procedure for removal. Dr. Kondrup opined,
however, that the Respondent was within the standard of quality care because he intended to
remove the Ethibond sutures as opposed to leave them in permanently.

Dr. Prentice testified on the issue of the requirement of IRB approval for the
Respondent’s suture study, Dr. Prentice was a professor at the University of Nebraska who
obtained tenute in 1981, At Nebraska he served as a professor of anatomy as well as IRB director
from 1981 to 1985 and the assistant and then associate dean of research from 1985 until 2000. -

Dr. Prentice testified that surgical innovation equates to any deviation from what is
considered standard practice. However, it does not necessarily equate to research or
experimentation. The federal regulations” define research as an activity designed to develop or

" contribute to generalized knowledge. Maryland law requires compliance with that regulation:
However, if surgical innovation radically departs from the standard practice, then a practitioner
is arguably obligated to perform that innovation in the form of a clinical trial. Dr. Prentice used
Baby Fae* as an extreme example of a radical departure.

Dr. Prentice reviewed the package label for Ethibond sutures. He concluded that while
the sutures are not specifically approved for GYN surgery, they are approved for placement in

soft tissue. Thus, their use in closing the vaginal cuff was arguably not off label. However, even

assuming the use was off label, Dr. Prentice opined the use was not a radical departure from the

 

41 Dr, Kondmup did testify that he uses Ethibond sutures when repairing the uterosacral ligament. However, that is an
entirely different procedure. ©

245 CER. § 46.

43 An infant born in 1984 with a serious heart condition. Surgeons at Loma Linda University transplanted her heart
with a baboon’s heart.

45°
