Respondent’s October 10, 2016 draft Ethibond study result report likewise does not contain
specific statistics on historic VCD sates in his practice. Bd. Ex. 3. It does, however, provide
examples of rates from other studies. Those rates span the general range from 0.13% to 7.4%
- over multiple years and under various circumstances. His accepted manuscript in JMIG cites a
general incidence rate of 0.3% to 3.1%, however, no specific data as to his own practice. Resp.
Ex, 16, at 5, The Respondent comes closest to citing specific numbers in his published
manusctipt in JMIG, where he states three patients from the Ethibond study cohort and twelve
patients from the Vicryl control arm experienced spontaneous VCD. Resp. Ex. 39, at 3-4. The
Respondent concludes this difference did not achieve statistical significance.

Without specific data regarding the incidence of VCD at the Respondent’s own practice
(prior to the study), it is difficult to determine whether the end (the desired decrease of VCD
rates) justifies his means (the use of Ethibond sutures that require a second surgery). The results
of the study published in JMIG certainly do not bear that out, Even assuming the Respondent’s
own historic VCD rate is on the higher end (e.g. 3.1%) that is still a low incidence. The
placement of Ethibond and required second surgery to remove them creates additional risks to
the patients. While Ethibond may decrease the overall risk of VCD, the presence of risk
associated with the placement of Ethibond and the need for a second surgery calls into question
whether the overall risk to the Respondent’s patients has truly been mitigated. Additionally, in
his published JMIG article the Respondent writes:

Although we did not have a sufficient number of VCD cases to detect a

statistically significant difference between the 2 groups, some of these patients

had risk factors associated with poor healing (e.g, obesity and smoking).

Arguably, we believe that these patients could have developed VCD had a weaker

suture material, such as Vicryl, been used. ,

Resp. Ex. 39, at 5.

52.
