Patient 6 - $247.54 (Bd. Ex. 24, at PM 4283)

Patient 9 - $156.22 (Bd. Ex. 33, at PM 4476)

This equates to an average of $152.23 for the six suture patients. In his response to the Board, the
Respondent indicated hie placed Ethibond sutures in 595 total patients. If he performed the
second surgery on sixty percent of those patients outside the global payment period, that equates
to 357 patients to whom he billed insurance for the second surgery. Assuming he received an
insurance payment for two-thirds of the 357 patients (as was the case with the suture patients),
that equates to payment received for 264 patients. Assuming he received $152.23 (the average
payment for the suture patients) for each of those 264 patients, that equates to atotal payout of
$52,272.00,

$52,272.00 is most likely a miniscule amount in comparison to the total gross proceeds of
the Respondent's practice for the period where he was placing the Ethibond sutures. However,
the question becomes did all those 264 patients actually need Ethibond to prevent VCD? What
was their actual risk? The Respondent’s comments in his published JMIG article seem to indicate
he already knew who the best candidates for Ethibond might be (smokers and the obese). There
is no evidence all, or even a slight majority of those patients fell into that category. Accordingly,
T shall recommend the charge of gross overutilization of health care services with regard to the

_suture patients be upheld.

I do not find the Respondent failed to keep adequate medical records with regard to the
suture patients as charged by the State. While I do find the Respondent deviated from the
standard of care by placing the Ethibond sutures in the suture patients, I do not find he failed to
keep adequate medical records by failing to notify the suture patients’ referring physicians. I

found Dr. Rafi’s testimony on this issue conclusoty and without explanation. I heard no evidence

 

52 The Respondent testified he did not “balance bill” (.e, charge the patient the balance of the fee not reimbursed. for
the second surgery). The billing records of the suture patients are consistent with that testimony. :

54
