1

of general anesthesia. In addition, the removal of the Ethibond sutures and/or the removal of
vagina mucosa caused bleeding, which required the Respondent to place an additional Vicryl
suture in the suture patients even after removing the Ethibond sutures. Dr. Rafi noted, with the

- exception of Patient 1 and Patient 4, the suture patients signed a consent form the day of their
hysterectomy wherein they acknowledged and consented to the placement of Ethibond sutures.
However, Dr. Rafi noted that the charts revealed no evidence the Respondent counseled the
suture patients on the risks and benefits of using Ethibond versus Vicryl sutures.

Dr. Rafi further testified that her review of the charts of the suture patients revealed that
the Respondent performed the second surgery more than ninety days after the first surgery. This
placed the second surgery outside the “global billing period,” meaning that it is billed as a .
second procedure as opposed to being considered in conjunction with the first surgery (i.e. the
hysterectomy) for billing purposes. Other physicians referred the suture patients to the ,
Respondent to perform their hysterectoinies. After performing the hysterectomies, the
Respondent wrote a status letter to the referring physician informing them how the patient
tolerated the hysterectomy. Dr. Rafi noted that in those status letters, the Respondent did not |
inform the referring physicians that he used Ethibond sutures to close the vaginal cuff, which
would in turn require the patients to undergo the second surgery. Finally, Dr. Rafi opined that
she learned the Respondent was performing a study and since that study concerned human
research, the study required IRB approval. Dr. Rafi saw no evidence the Respondent received
IRB approval prior to commencing the study.

On the issue of whether the Respondent should have obtained IRB approval prior to
commencing the study, the State called Dr. Shamoo. Dr. Shamoo has a Ph.D in bio-physics and
is a professor at the University of Maryland School of Medicine. For the past twenty-five years,
Dr. Shamoo has either taught or otherwise been involved in issues of ethics and regulatory

41
