the intent to create a specific cohort of Ethibond patients, arranged to have the Ethibond patients
treated at his ambulatory surgery center while his partner treated a second group of patients at a
hospital using exclusively Vicryl sutures; and (5) failed to provide the suture patients with
informed consent. The ALJ’s findings were based on the statutes, case law and regulations!*
provided by the parties, and the documentary and testimonial evidence, including the sworn
statements of Dr. MacKoul, the expert report and testimony of Dr. Shamoo, who testified for the
State, and the expert report and testimony of Dr. Prentice, who testified on behalf of Dr. MacKoul.
B. Exceptions to ALJ’s Conclusions of Human Subject Research

In his exceptions, Dr. MacKoul challenges the ALJ’s findings and conclusions that he
engaged in prospective human subject research. He claims that published website guidance on the
applicable federal regulations from the Office for Human Research Protections (“OHRP”)
contradicts the ALJ’s legal conclusions. Dr. MacKoul characterizes his surgical activities from
2013 to 2016 as quality improvement or clinical innovation, argues that the ALJ’s interpretation
and analysis of the federal regulations is legally erroneous, that the ALJ lacked expertise on the
matter, and arbitrarily deferred to Dr. Shamoo’s expert opinion. Dr. MacKoul also argues that the
ALJ improperly disregarded an approval by Integ Review IRB in 2018 that purportedly validated
his activities as retrospective record review. The record does not support Dr. MacKoul’s
contentions. Nor does the record support his assertions that the ALJ’s overall findings of

substandard care, gross overutilization of health care services, and unprofessional conduct are

 

4 pursuant to Md. Code Ann. State Gov't § 10-216(b), the Panel does not adopt the version of the post-2018 federal
regulations cited by the ALJ on pages 59-67 of the Proposed Decision including the citation to a “clinical trial" as
defined by 45 C.F.R. § 46.102(b) in those regulations. The ALJ accepted copies of the applicable laws and pre-2018
Health and Human Services ("HHS") regulations provided by the parties and made them part of the record. Prop. Dec.
at 9. In this Final Decision and Order, Panel B has reviewed the pre-2018 regulations in the record. The Panel also
modifies one of the titles on the list of Dr. MacKoul’s exhibits admitted into evidence to reflect that
Respondent's Exhibit 33 is titled "Northwell Health, Surgical Innovation vs. Research Activities Subject to IRB
Review." Prop. Dec. at 8.

18
