 

 

Dr. Rafi did not use Ethibond sutures in closing the vagina cuff in hysterectomy cases. The ALJ
consistently found that the use of Ethibond non-absorbable sutures is a violation of the standard of
care for closing the vaginal cuff after a hysterectomy because it required a second, otherwise
unnecessary, surgery. The ALJ found that, here, when the use of non-absorbable sutures after a
hysterectomy requires a second surgery, the use of these sutures violates the standard of care. The
Panel agrees.

Dr. MacKoul also appears to claim that the ALJ misunderstood his statement indicating
that he was returning to the standard, ie. Vicryl sutures. According to Dr. MacKoul, he meant
that he was returning to the standard practice, not that he was returning to the standard of care. Dr.
MacKoul’s statements, however, demonstrate that he purposely did not follow the standard
practice and was unsure of whether it met the standard of care when he testified, “it’s really
difficult to identify what is the standard of care” for closing a vaginal cuff. Regardless, the Panel
finds that Dr. MacKoul’s violation of the standard of care was based on his unnecessary use of
Ethibond sutures, which necessitated an additional surgery. The violation is not based on his
supposed admission.°

Finally, Dr. MacKoul argues that the ALJ should have considered that his motivation for
choosing the Ethibond sutures was to prevent VCD and that the use of Ethibond sutures improved
patient outcomes by decreasing incidents of VCD. The Panel does not accept Dr. MacKoul’s

claims. Even if Dr. MacKoul had been motivated to decrease occurrences of VCD, that does not

5 The Board charged Dr. MacKoul with violating the standard of care for performing 3 GYN surgeries on Patient 3
without having first referred her to a fertility specialist. The ALJ considered the expert opinions of Dr. Rafi for the
state and Dr. Udoff for the Respondent. The ALJ found that Dr. Udoff’s testimony - that a hysteroscopy procedure
involved minimal risk to the patient and reflected that Dr. MacKoul appropriately discussed the risks to her fertility
in light of the fibroids - was more compelling. The ALJ did not find a violation of the standard of care and the State
does not challenge that conclusion of the ALJ. Because there is no clear error, the Panel upholds the ALJ’s conclusion
regarding the standard of care pertaining to Patient 3.
