incidences of VCD. The Respondent decided to use his hysterectomy patients from October 2013
prospectively as human subj ects for his research. At the time he began the Ethibond suture
research in October 2013, the Respondent intended to publish its results and disseminate them
for the sake of the medical profession’s general knowledge. Dr. Danilyants continued to suture
the vaginal cuffs of her patients with Vicryl. The Respondent used Dr. Danilyants’s patients as
. the control arm of his study.

17, Prospective research using human subjects requires the approval of an IRB. The
Respondent did not obtain IRB approval prior to the commencement of his research in October
of 2013. The Respondent neither informncd his patients he was conducting human subject
research nor did he obtain their consent to do 50.

18. The global payment period'* for hysterectomies is ninety days. If performed
within ninety days of a hysterectomy, the Ethibond suture removal procedure is considered
follow-up care and not billed to insurance. If performed after the ninety days, the Ethibond °
suture removal procedure is billable. If granulation tissue forms and needs to be removed outside
the global payment period, the removal of that tissue is billed separately as well.

19.  Onor about April 13, 2016, the Board received a complaint (Complaint A) from
CareFirst Blue Cross Blue Shield (CareFirst). Complaint A alleged that the Respondent closed
the vaginal cuffs of his hysterectomy patients at his ASC}5 with non-absorbable Ethibond |
sutures, which was not the standard of quality care. The Respondent used Ethibond for the
specific purpose of billirig a second procedure to remove the, sutures outside the global payment

period. This would include billing for the removal of granulation tissue, which formed as a result

 

\¢ The global payment period is the period between the original procedure and any follow-up procedures to the
original procedure. If the follow-up procedures are performed within the global payment period, they are not billed.
If they are performed outside the global payment period, they are billed as separate procedures.

5 The complaint also alleged the Respondent sutured hysterectomy patients with Ethibond at his ASC because it
allowed him to bill an additional “facility fee” for the procedure to remove the sutures.

15
