prevent a finding of a standard of care violation. A resulting need for a second surgery should
have been sufficient for him to desist from using non-absorbable sutures.

Dr. MacKoul’s second point, that the surgery improved patient outcomes is misleading.
The medical journal article he authored (Resp. Ex. 39), provides that the difference in VCD
occurrences between the two types of stiches was not statistically significant. Moreover, using
Ethibond sutures adds further risk. Any possible benefits of using Ethibond sutures to prevent
VCD was outweighed by the risks of a second surgery. Using sutures that require a second
otherwise unnecessary surgery violated the standard of care. Dr. MacKoul’s exception is denied.

Il. Gross Overutilization of Health Care Services

Dr. MacKoul used Ethibond sutures (non-absorbable sutures) instead of absorbable sutures
in over 500 hysterectomies from 2013 through 2016. The ALJ found that, in 264 of these cases,
he used the Ethibond sutures so he could perform, and charge for, an additional procedure: the
removal of the Ethibond sutures. In these cases, Dr. MacKoul removed the Ethibond sutures more
than 90 days after the hysterectomy so that the suture removal would be classified as a separate
procedure from the hysterectomy, enabling him to charge for an additional procedure: Dr.
MacKoul “used Ethibond for the specific purpose of billing a second procedure to remove the
sutures outside the global payment period.” Prop. Dee. at 15, 19. Based on this conduct, the ALJ
concluded that Dr. MacKoul grossly overutilized health care services.

Dr. MacKoul took exception to the ALJ’s conclusion that he engaged in the gross
overutilization of health care services. His argument is that he did not engage in gross
overutilization because the costs were de minimus. First, he states that “the average charge of
$152.23 [for suture removals] . . . is de minimus. ”T Then he states that the ALJ’s estimate of

7 The $152.23 amount was determined by the ALJ as the average amount the insurance companies paid for the
additional procedure. Dr. MacKoul charged approximately $1,500 for the procedure.
