With regard to his request that Patient 10 be transferred ion to Ea
Red the Respondent testified that he lacked privileges i. Even if he did

have privileges at ea the Respondent testified he is familiar with the staff at

 

ey He knows the surgeons and interventional radiologists. He knows the doctors who
can best address his patients’ diagnosis.7°

I found Patient 10’s testimony sincere and credible. Her testimony was consistent with
her statements in her complaint, and I do not find she embellished any of her allegations.
However, Patient 10’s testimony, along with her complaint, essentially constitutes the sum total
of the State’s case concerning these charges. Ostensibly, the State contends that because the
Respondent’s comments”! were inappropriate or inconsiderate from Patient 10’s own subjective
viewpoint, the Respondent provided unprofessional care in the practice of medicine. Accepting
the State’s position means accepting the notion that if any patient feels a physician’s comment or
comments are inappropriate, that physician is guilty of unprofessional care in the practice of
medicine. That is’a slippery slope.

I did not find Dr. Fitzpatrick’s testimony abundantly helpful. Dr. Fitzpatrick, while highly
skilled and experienced, testified in generalities as to the Respondent’s comments.” His
testimony failed to apply those comments to the context of Patient 10’s particular experience. I
give greater weight to the Respondent’s testimony on this issue. I found the Respondent’s
testimony on this particular issue heartfelt and sensible. He provided reasonable and rational
explanations as to why he made the comments. He did not disparage Patient 10 either in his

response to the Board or his testimony.

_

20 On or about August 2, 2016, the Respondent provided the Board with a Response to Patient 10’s complaint. Bd.
Ex. 6. :

21 To be clear, my analysis is confined only to two comments made by the Respondent: 1) his “overkill” comment
and 2) his explanation as to why he transferred Patient 10 from’ 0

2 Given Dr. Fitzpatrick’s report (Resp. Ex, 2) consists mostly of opinions on charges related to Patient 10, which the
State dropped, it is clear his expertise is more focused on issues other than professionalism.

23
