Kondrup seemed to shy away from such a situation in his own practice. When asked if he used
Ethibond sutures to close the vaginal cuff in his own surgeries, he testified he did not, with the
rationale that doing so would require a second surgery. In his published article in the Journal of
Minimally Invasive Gynecology (IMIG) the Respondent writes, “The use of nonabsorbable
sutures in vaginal cuff closure has not been previously described in the literature.” Resp. Ex. 39,
at 4, Itis difficult to believe that a surgical technique that has never been discussed can be

considered a standard of quality care.

The Respondent attempted to downplay the seriousness of the second surgery. It is true
that the second surgeries were short. As noted in the chart above, all the procedures, with the
exception of Patient 2’s, were shorter than ten ininutes. However, simply because the procedure
was short does not mean it did not place the Patients at risk. I find the Respondent’s two consent
forms illustrate the serious nature of the placement of the Ethibond sutures. The first consent
form, which all the suture patients with the exception of Patient 1 and Patient 4 signed on the

dates of their hysterectomies, reads as follows with regard to the placement of the Ethibond

sutures:

J understand that non-absorbable sutures, specifically Ethibond, will be used for
closure of the vaginal cuff. 1 understand the benefits of using Ethibond sutures to
include prevention of [VCD] after [the hysterectomy] either complete or partial. I
understand the risks of not removing the sutures, which include possible erosion -
into the vaginal tissue causing pain, bleeding, scarring, difficulty with intercourse
and sexual function, infection, formation of granulation tissue, injury to the
bladder, ureters and vagina. I fully understand that these sutures need to be
removed 3 months after the procedure and this has been explain to me by my
physician. | also understand that in rare cases, all the sutures may not be removed
(retained), and may cause the above symptoms. Retained sutures may require
reoperation for removal to include removal of the sutures, granulation tissue
removal and vaginal surgical revision (rare).

Bd. Ex. 20, at PM 4140."

ne

45 This is the consent form signed by Patient 5 as an example. The others contain the same language.

48
