not want to participate in the research. This part of the informed consent must be
organized and presented in a way that facilitates comprehension.

(ii) Informed consent as a whole must present information in sufficient
detail relating to the research, and must be organized and presented in a way that
does not merely provide lists of isolated facts, but rather facilitates-the prospective
subject’s or legally authorized representative’s understanding of the reasons why
one might or might not want to participate. :

(b) Basic elements of informed consent. Except as: provided in paragraph (d),
(e), or (f) of this section, in seeking informed consent the following information
shall be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:

(1) A statement that the study involves research, an explanation of the .
purposes of the research and the expected duration of the subject’s participation, a

'. description of the procedures to be followed, and identification of any procedures
that are experimental;

(4) A disclosure of appropriate alternative procedures or courses of treatment,
‘if any, that might be advantageous to the subject;

(8) A statement that participation is voluntary, refusal to participate will
involve no penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled,
and the subject may discontinue participation at any time without penalty or loss
of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled; and

(9) One of the following statements about any research that involves the
collection of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens:

(i) A statement that identifiers might be removed from the identifiable
private information or identifiable biospecimens and that, after such removal, the
information or biospecimens could be used for future research studies or
distributed to another investigator for future research studies without additional
informed consent from the subject or the legally authorized representative, if this
might be a possibility; or / . :

(ii) A statement that the subject’s information or biospecimens collected as
part of the research, even if identifiers are removed, will not be used or distributed
for future research studies.

45 CFR. § 46.117, entitled “Documentation of Informed Consent,” reads in full as follows:

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, informed consent shall
be documented by the use of a written informed consent form approved by the
IRB and signed (including in an electronic format) by the subject or the subject’s
legally authorized representative. A written copy shall be given to the person
signing the informed consent form.

65
