the Respondent performed a follow-up surgery on Patient 3, In this surgery the Respondent
laparoscopically performed a lysis of adhesions in Patient 3’s uterus, repaired a rupture in Patient
3s uterus (Hysterrorhaphy), and a chromopertubation to determine whether the fallopian tubes |
were blocked or open. On July 17, 2015, the Respondent performed a third procedure, a
hysteroscopy. During this procedure, the Respondent inserted a tube into Patient 3’s uterus, to
examine the condition of its lining. On July 23, 2015, the Respondent referred Patient 3 to Dr.
Udoff fot a consultation concerning In Vitro Fertilization. |

In support of its charge of failure to maintain the standard quality of care on this issue,
the State called Dr. Rafi, the peer reviewer, as its expert witness. Dr. Rafi is the intérim chair of
the OB/GYN department at ey She completed her OB/GYN residency in 2000
and has been a practicing physician in that field since that time. In particular, sirice at least 2012,
Dr. Rafi has been the Minimally Invasive Director for the OB/GYN department ot

Pe In that role she teaches laparoscopic skills and assists in GYN surgeries. She
credentials all new providers on advanced laparoscopic skills. Dr. Rafi is skilled in performing
both hysterectomies and myomectomies. She has published articles on OBY/GYN and public
health issues.

Dr. Rafi testified she reviewed Patient 3’s records and opined that the Respondent did not
meet the standard quality of care when he performed the third procedure, the hysteroscopy, on
Patient 3, She opined that he should have sent her to-a fertility specialist first At the time of the
third surgery Patient 3 was thirty-seven years old and expressed a desire to possibly bear children
-in the future. Dr. Rafi opined that performing an invasive procedure such as a hysteroscopy on
Patient 3’s uterus ran the risk of. creating more scar tissue on the center of the wierus. The scar
tissue could further compromise Patient 3’s already precarious chances of conceiving. Further,
the hysteroscopy exposed Patient 3 to another round of anesthesia, subjecting her to additional

25
