The State took exception to the ALJ’s conclusion, arguing that the artery needs to be ligated
as part of performing a hysterectomy and that Dr. MacKoul should not have had separate bills for
the ligation and the general hysterectomy. The State contends that this unbundling, therefore,
constitutes gross overutilization of health care services.

Dr. MacKoul argues that the alleged unbundling was, as the ALJ suggested, a mere
contractual dispute between CareFirst and him, and suggested that it is more appropriately
addressed in a civil court action. Because CareFirst neither was brought to the hearing to support
the charge nor contacted him about this coding charge, he claims that it is improper to sustain the
charge. Dr. MacKoul also contends that the insurance companies agreed that he could charge for
the procedure, and that, therefore, it was not overcharging.

The Panel does not adopt the ALJ’s framing of this issue as a contract dispute. Overbilling -
by unbundling implicates the unprofessional conduct disciplinary ground under the Maryland
Medical Practice Act. Dr. MacKoul’s unbundling related to the ligation did not result in the
performance of additional procedures and thus, did not implicate the gross overutilization ground.
The main issue before the Panel is whether ligation of the artery was a regular part of the
hysterectomies or whether it was of such a divergence from the usual hysterectomies, due to the
complexity of the cases, that it was appropriately billed separately.

Removal of these uteri was not so overly complex that billing separately for ligation of the
artery was appropriate.® The Panel accepts the testimony of the State’s expert who has extensive
experience performing this type of hysterectomy. The Panel does not find the testimony of Ms.
Welter convincing. While the Panel credits the accuracy of her testimony that such a billing may
be used in particularly complex cases, her testimony that these procedures rise to that level is not

8 The Board does not find a violation for billing under the CPT code 58553, when four of the six uteri were under 250
grams because this was not specified in the charging documents and was not discussed by the parties at the hearing.

{1
