the Respondent’s use of Ethibond in an off label manner exempted him from obtaining IRB
approval. Dr. Shamoo opined that the issue of whether the Respondent was using Ethibond in an
off label manner was not relevant to the issues in this case‘?

Dr. Shamoo also opined that the Respondent’s placement of the Ethibond sutures was
neither innovation nor quality improvement. Those activities, he testified, do not involve the

_ collection of data on multiple patients and are rather more informal. They involved perhaps one

or a handful of patients. Dr. Shamoo further testified that although the Respondent obtained IRB
approval for his study in 2018, that approval concerned data already in existence and not
approval of the process the Respondent instituted starting in October of 2013.

The Respondent's Case

Dr. Kondrup and Dr. Mesrobian testified on behalf of the Respondent, Dr. Mesrobian
testified about the type of anesthesia the Respondent used during the second surgeries of the
suture patients and any risks associated with the use of that anesthesia. Dr. Mesrobian opined
that the anesthesia risk to the suture patients during the second surgery was minimal and not
significant. ‘The MAC anesthesia used was not general anesthesia but rather a light form of
sedation, He noted that the records of the suture patients revealed that they received the proper
consent for the anesthesia at the second surgery and the second surgeries were low risk and
therefore appropriately performed at the Respondent's ASC. Dr. Mesrobian, however, did testify
that as a general proposition, patients need to be medically cleared a second time when
undergoing surgery that requires a MAC level of anesthesia.

Dr. Kondrup testified that surgeons have a variety of sutures from which to choose in
closing, the vaginal cuff.-Vicryl is the common suture used, however, barbed sutures are

beginning to become more prevalent. Dr. Kondrup opined that Vicryl usually dissolves down in

 

_ De, Shamoo did not expound on this particular conclusion.

44
