I find the Respondent violated the provisions of the above quoted federal regulations. I
find starting in October 2013, he engaged in a clinical trial as defined by 45 C.F.R. § 46.102(b).
He made the conscious choice at that time to prospectively assign two groups: the Ethibond
experiment group and the Vicryl control group. I do not find the Respondent exposed the
Ethibond patients to minimal risk as defined by 45 C.F.R. § 46.102(j). For reasons stated earlier
in this decision, I find the second surgery exposed the Ethibond patients to discomfort greater
than what they can expect to encounter in daily life or during the performance of routine physical
or psychological examinations or tests. I find the Respondent engaged in research as defined by
45 CER. § 46.102(1) because the Respondent, starting in October 2013, intended the Ethibond
study to contribute to generalized knowledge. I do not find the Respondent’s Ethibond study falls
under any of the exemptions contained in 45 C.F.R. § 46.104, as it was prospective research he
began in October 2013.

I further find, based upon review of the records in evidence from the suture patients, that
the Respondent did not provide them with informed consent as required by 45 CF.R. § 46.116. 1
do not find he afforded the suture patients the opportunity to discuss and consider whether to:
participate in the Ethibond study. The suture patients signed their consent forms” (for both
surgeries) the day of the procedure. Furthermore, I do not find the Respondent provided the
suture patients with information they would need to make an informed decision as required by 45
CER. § 46,116(4). The first consent form, which most of the suture patients signed the date of
their first surgery (the hysterectomy), only advises them of the placement of the Ethibond sutures

and the need for their removal. It is not until the second consent form, which all suture patients

 

58 As noted above, Patient 1 and Patient 4 did not even sign consent forms for their first surgery.

67
