‘

they obtained in April of 2018. The IRB approved the research because it was retrospective and
the patients were de-identified.

Analysis

Having considered the evidence and arguments of both parties, I find the Respondent’s
usc of Ethibond sutures to close the vaginal cuff to be outside the standard of quality care. First,
the Respondent himself could not state for certain whether the use of the Ethibond sutures fell
within the standard of quality of care. At the hearing he testified that “it’s really difficult to
identify what is the standard of care now for closure of a vaginal cuff.” Tr. vol. 5, at 752.
However, in his interview under oath with the Board on May 1, 2017, he testified as follows:

Q: So moving forward, if the patient wasn’t part of the trial, would you just use

the Ethibond suture?

A:No, I’m using Vicryl now. Vicryl’s the standard, right.
Q: Uh-huh.

A: It’s the standard. This is something that’s very valuable, but I’m now going
back to the standard after the retrospective review was completed.

Bd, Ex. 2, at PM 3625.

If Vicryl was the standard in May of 2017, ] find it more likely than not it was the
standard when the Respondent began to use Ethibond in October of 2013. I found Dr. Rafi’s
testimony on this issue convincing. She assuredly testified that Vicryl, and absorbable sutures in
general, has been the standard of care since 1996 because no second surgery is required for
removal. J found Dr. Kondrup’s testimony on this issue much less convincing. Dr. Kondrup
opined that the Respondent did not deviate from the standard of care because his choice of
sutures was within his professional discretion and compared the choice to the choice of surgical
instruments, In his report, Dr. Kondrup referenced the use of Ethibond sutures in GYN surgery,
but only in the context of a procedure suspending the uterosacral ligament. What Dr. Kondrup
could not do is provide an example of any other instance where a surgeon’s decision to deviate to

anew procedure that requires a second surgery is within the standard of quality care. Indeed, Dr.
47
