contaminant at or below the level found to be safe, by the Food and Drug
Administration or approved by the Environmental Protection Agency or the Food
Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

(7) Storage or maintenance for secondary research for which broad consent is
required: Storage or maintenance of identifiable private information or
identifiable biospecimens for potential secondary research use if an IRB conducts
a limited IRB review and makes the determinations required by § 46.111(a)(8).

(8) Secondary research for which broad consent is required: Research
involving the use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens
for secondary research use, if the following criteria are met:

(i) Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use
of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens was obtained
in accordance with § 46.116(a)(1) through (4), (a)(6), and (d);

(ii) Docimentation of informed consent or waiver of documentation of _
consent was obtained in accordance with § 46.117;

(iii) An IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determination
required by § 46.111(a)(7) and makes the determination that the research to be
conducted is within the scope of the broad consent referenced in paragraph
(d)(8)(i) of this section; and :

(iv) The investigator does not include returning individual research results
to subjects as part of the study plan. This provision does not prevent an

investigator from abiding by any legal requirements to return individual research
results.

45 CFR. § 46.116, entitled “General Requirements for Informed Consent,” reads in

pertinent part as follows:
(a)....

(2) An investigator shall seek informed consent only under circumstances that
provide the prospective subject or the legally authorized representative sufficient
opportunity to discuss and consider whether or not to participate and that
minimize the possibility of coercion or undue influence.

(4) The prospective subject or the legally authorized representative must be
provided with the information that a reasonable person would want to have in.
order to make an informed decision about whether to participate, and an
opportunity to discuss that information.

(5) Except for broad consent obtained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this
section:

(i) Informed consent must begin with a concise and focused presentation of
the key information that is most likely to assist a prospective subject or legally
authorized representative in understanding the reasons why one might or might

64
