(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the informed consent
form may be either of the following:

(1) A written informed consent form that meets the requirements of § 46.1 16.
The investigator shall give either the subject or the subject’s legally authorized
representative adequate opportunity to read the informed consent form before it is
signed; alternatively, this form may be read to the subject or the subject’s legally
authorized representative. : ,

(2) A short form written informed consent form stating that the elements of
informed consent required by § 16.116 have been presented orally to the subject
or the subject’s legally authorized representative, and that the key information
required by § 46.1 16(a)(5)(i) was presented first to the subject, before other
information, if any, was provided. The IRB shall approve a written summaty of.
what is to be said to the subject or the legally authorized representative. When this
method is used, there shall be a witness to the oral presentation. Only the short
form itself is to be signed by the subject or the subject’s legally authorized
representative. However, the witness shall sign both the short forn and a copy of
the summary, and the person actually obtaining consent shall sign a copy of the
summary. A copy of the summary shall be given to the subject or the subject’s
legally authorized representative, in addition to a copy of the short form.

(c)(1) An IRB may waive the requirement for the investigator to obtain a signed
informed consent form for some or all subjects if it finds any of the following:

_() That the only record linking the subject and the research would be the
informed consent form and the principal risk would be potential harm resulting
from a breach of confidentiality. Each subject (or legally authorized
representative) will be asked whether the subject wants documentation linking the
subject with the research, and the subject’s wishes will govern, ,

, (ii) That the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to
subjects and involves no procedures for which written consent is normally
required outside of the research context; or

(iii) If the subjects or legally authorized representatives are members of a
distinct cultural group or community in which signing forms is not the norm, that
the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and provided
_ there is an appropriate alternative mechanism for documenting that informed
consent was obtained. :

(2) In cases in which the documentation requirement is waived, the IRB may

require the investigator to provide subjects or legally authorized representatives
with a written statement regarding the research.

66
