Dr. Shamoo reviewed the Respondent’s response to the Board (Bd. Ex. 42) and his
testimony to the Board (Bd. Ex. 2). Dr. Shamoo opined that while the Respondent claimed to be
conducting a retrospective study, in reality the Respondent conducted a pro spective study. First,
Dr. Shamoo pointed to the Respondent’s testimony to the Board where the Respondent
references stopping his study once he “accrued the number [of Ethibond suture patients] to reach
a certain power.” (Bd. Ex. 2, at PM 3622). In other words, the Respondent obtained a statistically
significant number of patients by which he could compare to a separate group of patients (i.e.
Vicryl patients). Dr. Shamoo also noted the Respondent’s reference to Dr. Danilyants using
Vicryl sutures on her patients and being the control arm of the study. (Bd. Ex. 42, at 2-3). By
doing so, the Respondent introduced a second variable to the study making it consistent with
prospective research. Dr. Shamoo dismissed the Respondent’s contentions that the study was
simply a “pilot study” and that in any event the AAGL” sanctioned the study.

With regard to the Respondent's study being a pilot study, Dr. Shamoo opined that pilot |
studies only concern a handful of patients—not hundreds as present in the Respondent’s study.
In addition, he opined that any opinion of the AAGL does not absolve the Respondent of his duty
to comply with federal regulations concerning human subject research. Dr. Shamoo also opined
that the Respondent did not perform innovation by. placing the Ethibond sutures in the
hysterectomy patients at his ASC. Just like a pilot study, innovation concerns ‘one or perhaps a
handful of patients—not hundreds.

Ethibond and other sutures are regulated by the FDA. The label on the Ethibond package
lists the various approved uses for Ethibond sutures. Suturing of the vaginal cuff is not a use
specifically listed on the label. Thus, in using the Ethibond sutures, the Respondent was using

them in an “off label” manner. The State asked Dr. Shamoo to provide an opinion as to whether

a
39 American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists.

43
