compliance in human subject studies. In particular, Dr. Shamoo was involved in the drafting and
creation of the statute in Maryland concerning the regulation of human subject research. Dr.
Shamoo has taught and written extensively about IRB requirements in human subject research.
. . Dr. Shamoo testified that he reviewed the charges and the Respondent’ s response to the
Board in preparation for his testimony. Dr. Shamoo testified when human. subject research
concerns any drug or device regulated by the FDA, special protections are in place through the
Office of Human Research Protections. Maryland is one of the states that requires the application
of all federal Jaws when performing research on human subjects. The federal regulations contain
certain ex emptions for human subject research, for example, educational purposes. However, an
IRB must still determine whether the human subject research is exempt. The federal regulations
also contain eight requirements to be sure human subjects have adequate informed consent to
participate in the research. In particular, the human subject must be informed as to the risks and
| benefits of the treatment, alternatives to the treatment, and the purpose of the research. Dr.
Shamoo noted that the difference between treatment and research is the following: treatment is
for the benefit of the patient and research is for the benefit of the public.
Dr. Shamoo testified as to two types of studies: prospective and retrospective. He defined
a prospective study as starting at “time zero” and working toward the future using a variable and
observing how the human subjects react to that variable, A retrospective study is again starting at
“time zero,” but working backward to review data alteady in existence from patients’ records,
with a assurances in place that the confidentiality of the patients is maintained. Dr. Shamoo opined
that IRB approval is required for a prospective study. TRB approval i is required for a retrosp ective
study as well if the purpose of the study is to enhance the public good and provide generalizable

knowledge. Publication is a hallmark of generalizable knowledge.

42
