However, the consent form that all the suture patients signed on the date of the second surgery

reads in pertinent part as follows:

The [second surgery] has been explained to me and | have been provided with the
necessary information for me to evaluate the risks and benefits of the proposed
treatment. These risks include infection, bleeding, injury to bowel, bladder,
ureters, pelvic pain, adhesions, pain with intercourse, and difficulty with sexual
function. :

Td, at PM 4177.8

First, it is questionable whether the Respondent adequately counseled the suture patients
as to the potential complications from the second surgery prior to their consent to the placement
of the Ethibond sutures at the first surgery.’” None of the risks associated with the second
surgery (e.g. infection, bleeding, injury to bowel, étc.) are present on the first consent form.
Furthermore, if the second surgery did not entail risk, I find the Respondent would not have had
the suture patients sign such a detailed consent form prior to commencing the second surgery.

I credit Dr. Mesrobian’s testimony that the anesthesia used on the suture patients at the
second surgery placed them at low risk, He exhibited sound knowledge of the various anesthesia
types and the anesthesia process. However, like with any procedure, risk still exists. I agree with
the State that such risk would not exist with Vieryl or other absorbable sutures. Moresver, the
second surgery required the suture patients be reevaluated and medically cleared for the
anesthesia. The question then becomes, what if the patient cannot be cleared a second time for

the second surgery? Do the sutures simply stay in? If so, how would the Respondent reconcile
that with his caution to the suture patients in the first consent form where he warns them that the

Ethibond.sutures must be removed? While the likelihood of a patient not being cleared for the

 

46 This is the consent form signed by Patient 5 as an example. The others contain the same language. :

47 In his IMIG article the Respondent writes, “Of note, we identified 4 patients with some degree of cuff dehiscence
at the time of Ethibond removal, allowing for debridement and repair of the vaginal cuff in a controlled
environment, We suspect that these 4 cases occurred due to incomplete healing and from the force of suture
removal.” Resp. Ex. 39, at 4 (emphasis added).

49
