(2) Intervention includes both physical procedures by which information or
biospecimens are gathered (e.g., venipuncture) and manipulations of the subject
or the subject’s environment that are performed for research purposes.,

(3) Interaction includes communication or interpersonal contact between
investigator and subject.

(h) IRB approval means the determination of the IRB that the research has been
reviewed and may be conducted at an institution within the constraints set forth
by the IRB and by other institutional and federal requirements.

(j) Minimal risk means that the probability and magnitude of harm or
discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of themselves than
those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine
physical or psychological examinations or tests.

(2) Research means a systematic investigation, including research development,
testing, and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable
knowledge. Activities that meet this definition constitute research for purposes of
this policy, whether or not they are conducted or supported under a program that
is considered research for other purposes. For example, some demonstration and
service programs may include research activities. For purposes of this part, the
following activities are deemed not to be research:

(1) Scholarly and journalistic activities (¢.g., oral history, journalism,
biography, literary criticism, legal research, and historical scholarship), including
the collection and use of information, that focus directly on the specific
individuals about whom the information is collected. .

(2) Public health surveillance activities, including the collection and testing of
information or biospecimens, conducted, supported, requested, ordered, required,
or authorized by a public health authority. Such activities are limited to those
necessary to allow a public health authority to identify, monitor, assess, or
investigate potential public health signals, onsets of disease outbreaks, or
conditions of public health importance (including trends, signals, risk factors,
patterns in diseases, or increases in injuries from using consumer products). Such
activities include those associated with providing timely situational awareness and
priority setting during the course of an event or crisis that threatens public health
(including natural or man-made disasters). .

(3) Collection and analysis of information, biospecimens, or records by or for
a criminal justice agency for activities authorized by law or court order solely for
criminal justice or ctiminal investigative purposes.

(4) Authorized operational activities (as determined by each agency) in
support of intelligence, homeland security, defense, or other national security
missions.

60
