the Ethibond suture was amenable to cuff closure, and whether it gave better rates of non-
dehiscence versus Vicryl. He further testified that the rates were 0%, the power analysis required
use of a large number of cases, hundreds of them, to get down to a variable and a power that
allowed one to say its better than Vicryl. According to Dr. MacKoul, they had over 20 different
research protocols ongoing, and a large research team gets involved whenever they do things such
as this scientific endeavor.

When asked how he chose patients for the study, Dr. MacKoul stated that they were not
actually picking out selective patients for what was really a suture study, nor trying to identify
which patient was at high or low risk. Rather, they wanted to see whether or how the Ethibond
suture worked, if it worked versus Vicryl, and if there were higher success rates versus Vicryl. He
stated that the patients’ past medical histories did not play a role in this trial, all of his patients had
Ethibond, his partner was the control on Vicryl, and they stopped the study in October, 2016 once
his research director accrued the number of patients required to hit the power analysis that made it
a significant study. Dr. MacKoul maintained that doing it on 20 or 200 people was of no use, but
at 800 it reached that analysis. He further testified that they figured it would take three years, and
by looking at the volume, they were trying to see if they could stop or extend it, if required.
According to Dr. MacKoul, they asked his research director every month if they needed to keep
doing these and she said “a couple more, a couple more,” they reached the point where she did her
analysis and said they could stop, and they stopped. He testified that he had now gone back to
using Vicryl because Vicryl is the standard. In Dr. MacKoul’s view, the evidence showed that
Ethibond had a significant potential for eliminating VCD and is statistically significant in this trial.

2. Supplemental Response to the Peer Review
In his later supplemental response to the peer review reports, Dr. MacKoul verified that his

partner was the control arm of the study using absorbable (Vicryl) sutures, and he was the

22
