investigational arm using Ethibond sutures trying to compare the outcomes of VCD between
absorbable and nonabsorbable sutures. (St. Exh. 42, pp. 2-3) Patients were informed verbally of
their option to use Ethibond or Vicryl sutures the day of surgery at the surgery center. Dr. MacKoul
depicted his Ethibond study as a pilot study extending from 2013 to 2016, in which a total of 595
patients had Ethibond sutures placed, and Ethibond suture placement was terminated after accrual
of patients was reached. (St. Exh. 42, p. 4)
3. Panel B’s Evaluation of the Evidence

Dr. MacKoul’s exceptions arguments echo his arguments from the evidentiary hearing and
mischaracterize the nature and reality of his surgical activities and data recording from 2013-2016.
His characterization of his activities as a retrospective study involving quality improvement or
clinical innovation rather than research is inherently self-contradictory based on the facts of this
case. As Dr. MacKoul observed in his updated manuscript, there were no prior studies or research
in the gynecological literature exploring the use of absorbable versus non-absorbable sutures to
prevent VCD. Based on its review of Dr. MacKoul’s own account of his surgical activities to the
Board in 2016 and 2017, the panel agrees with the ALJ that Dr. MacKoul engaged in prospective
human subject research in his surgical interventions with hundreds of living individuals from 2013-
2016. Dr. MacKoul’s manuscript, sworn testimony and written response to the peer review
highlighted his primary and deliberate intention to compare the risk of cuff breakdown using
absorbable versus nonabsorbable sutures for vaginal cuff closure with two patient groups. The
process that Dr. MacKoul began and continued from October, 2013 until October, 2016, was the
systematic investigation process at issue, one that he figured would take three years.

His activities during this ongoing research process involved his use of a previously untried

surgical intervention on 595 human subjects to determine if the Ethibond suture was amenable to

23
