absorbable suture, his use of the variable Ethibond suture as the investigational arm and Vicryl as
the control arm of the study, and his observations about the reactions of the study participants to
the variable. The Panel finds that Dr. MacKoul’s characterization of his actions as quality
improvement is inapplicable to the reality of his conduct from October 1, 2013 with the hundreds
of unknowing participants in his research study. The Panel denies his exception. Dr. MacKoul also
speculates that his failure to obtain IRB approval before initiating the 2013-2016 prospective
research would have resulted in an IRB determination of non-compliance and non-approval, and
a referral for investigative and enforcement action. He provides no basis for his theoretical
assertions. The Panel denies his exception.
3. Panel B’s Evaluation of Expert Testimony

The ALJ discussed the bases for the respective opinions of Dr. Shamoo and Dr. Prentice
and found that Dr. Shamoo’s opinion was more persuasive and credible. Prop. Dec. at 41-44; 45-
46; 55-59. In carefully considering the opinions of Dr. Shamoo and Dr. Prentice, the Panel has
focused on the factual foundations and legal reasoning for their opinions as well as their
professional qualifications. The Panel has used its knowledge and expertise to evaluate the expert
evidence on this issue, and its evaluation of the respective opinions of each expert is based on the
logic, credibility, and persuasiveness of their opinions as it relates to the totality of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The Panel agrees with the ALJ that Dr. Shamoo properly based. his
opinion on the specific activities undertaken by Dr. MacKoul from 2013 to 2016 instead of Dr.
MacKoul’s claims about the nature of his activities and intentions. Dr. Prentice did not have an
adequate factual foundation for his opinions and merely accepted and relied on Dr. MacKoul’s
subjective representations of his surgical activities from 2013 to 2016 at face value. Although Dr.

Prentice provided objective distinctions between innovation and clinical research and prospective

29
