’

>

45 CFR. § 46.104, entitled “Exempt Research,” reads in full as follows: _

(a) Unless otherwise required by law or by department or agency heads,
research activities in which the only involvement of human subjects will be in one
or more of the categories in paragraph (d) of this section are exempt from the
requirements of this policy, except that such activities must comply with the
requirements of this section and as specified in each category. :

(b) Use of the exemption categories for research subject to the requirements of
subparts B, C, and D: Application of the exemption categories to research subject
to the requirements of 45 CFR part 46, subparts B, C, and D, is as follows:

(1) Subpart B. Each of the exemptions at this section may be applied to
research subject to subpart B if the conditions of the exemption are met.

(2) Subpart C. The exemptions at this section do not apply to research subject
to subpart C, except for research aimed at involving a broader subject population
that only incidentally includes prisoners.

(3) Subpart D. The exemptions at paragraphs (d)(1), (4), (5), (6), (> and (8)
of this section may be applied to research subject to subpart D if the conditions of
the exemption are met. Paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section only may apply
to research subject to subpart D involving educational tests or the observation of
public behavior when the investigator(s) do not participate in the activities being
observed. Paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section may not be applied to research
subject to subpart D.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Except as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the following categories
of human subjects research are exempt from this policy:

(1) Research, conducted in established or commonly accepted educational
settings, that specifically involves normal educational practices that are not likely
to adversely impact students’ opportunity to learn required educational content or
the assessment of educators who provide instruction. This includes most research
on regular and special education instructional strategies, and research on the
effectiveness of or the comparison among instructional techniques, curricula, or
‘classroom management methods.

(2) Research that only includes interactions involving educational tests
(cognitive, diagnostic, aptitude, achievement), survey procedures, interview
procedures, or observation of public behavior (including visual or auditory
recording) if at least one of the following criteria is met:

(i) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a’
manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained,
directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;

’ . Gi) Any disclosure of the human subjects’ responses outside the research
would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be
damaging fo the subjects” financial standing, employability, educational
advancement, or reputation; or :

61
