the Respondent testified he relies on the Pathologist for the weight of the fibroids. However, he
- maintained he estimated he removed approximately forty-five fibroids from Patient 3. |
On the issue of the counting of fibroids in the OR, Iam more persuaded by Dr.
Kondiup’s testimony than | am by Dr. Rafi’s testimony. I found Dr. Rafi’s testimony on this
issue to be conclusory. She provided little detail ag to how she arrived at the conclusion the
physician bears the responsibility for accurately accounting for the weight and number of
fibroids in the OR. In contrast, Dr. Kondrup provided more detail regarding the rationale as to
why a GYN surgeon might estimate the amount of fibroids, and when he or she might need to be
. more accurate, Both Dr. Kondrup and Dr. Udoff, provided sound opinions as to why, in the
instance of Patient 3, the Respondent’s accuracy in counting and weighing the fibroids in the OR .
_ was not critical, and why he appropriately relied upon the pathology report. |
However, questions still remain as to whether the Respondent maintained accurate
records with regard to Patient 3. There is no dispute that on October 3, 2.014, the Respondent
initially estimated he removed forty-five fibroids from Patient 3. There is no dispute that the .
October 8, 2014 pathology report lists twenty-five fibroids removed from Patient 3. At no point’
. during the proceedings did the Respondent take the position the pathologist erred in listing
twenty-five fibroids. He presented no evidence to question the accuracy of the pathology report.
He, in tum, did not explain why his subsequent treatment notes are not consistent with the
pathology report. In his October 22, 2014 chart note, he incorrectly lists forty-five fibroids. In his
July 6, 2015 chart note, he correctly lists twenty-five fibroids. However, approximately two
weeks later in a July 23, 2015 referral letter to Dr. Udoff, the Respondent incorrectly reports he

removed “forty plus” fibroids from Patient 3.

30
