A. It is because Dr. MacKoul testified -- and

it’s im the -- it’s in his transcript in a number of

places that his intent was to do a -- arandomized

prospective study or research, clinical trial if you will.

‘And he wanted to get enough data to support the --

the parameters that would be necessary to have a valid

prospective clinical trial.

That was his intent and he can keep on analyzing the

the outcome data from the innovative practice, i.e.

utilizing Ethibond, until the cows came home. Okay. But,

eventually, he wanted to get to the point where he felt I

have enough information, I understand the clinical

parameters sufficiently well that I'm ready to move on to

have a -- a prospective clinical trial initiated and,

indeed, as you probably know, he did submit a protocol to

Integra IRB for a prospective trial.

It was approved by Integra. He never initiated it.

Tr. vol. 3, at 422-23 (emphasis added).

Dr. Shamoo laid a better foundation for his opinion. I found Dr. Shamoo’s opinion that
the Respondent engaged in a prospective study to be based upon the Respondent’s actions. For
example, Dr. Shamoo specifically opined that the Respondent’s use of a contro] arm with his
study was consistent with a prospective study. Tr. vol, 2, at 292-93. Dr. Shamoo rendered his
opinion based upon an action the Respondent actually took-—not the Respondent’s subjective

contention as to the nature of his actions.

The Respondent may have had the benefit of his practice in mind when he commenced
his Ethibond study in October of 2013. However, at the time he commenced the Ethibond study,
I find it more likely than not that he intended to submit the results for publication, Thus, | find he
intended the results to be generalized knowledge for the benefit of the profession, The
Respondent had a research team at his practice and hired Dr. Van der Does as its head. Dr. Van
der Does testified that when the Respondent first hired her part-time in early 2014 he asked that
she draft a white paper on the subject of two port laparoscopic hysterectomy procedures. Tr, vol.
5, at 656. However, she learned the Respondent really wanted to publish the article in a peer

57
