regarding the removal of the fibroids. However, the Respondent clearly sent the fibroids to the
pathologist. The pathologist generated a report and no doubt issued her own bill to Patient 3.
With regard to the suture patients, the Respondent exercised his profes sional judgment and °
declined to send the vagina mucosa to the pathologist. I find no evidence in the record to
question that judgment. While the Respondent did use CPT code 57105 “biopsy of vagina,” the
word “biopsy” appears to be a misnomer in the billing records. Dr. Rafi testified repeatedly she
was “confused” by the use of code 57105 — but I heard no evidence that the Respondent should
have billed a different code for this procedure. Accordingly, I shall recommend the charges with
regard to this issue be dismissed. .

37617 “Ligation of the Abdominal Artery”

In her peer review report and her testimony at the hearing, Dr. Rafi questioned why the
Respondent billed CPT code 37617 for ligation of the abdominal artery in conjunction with the
hysterectomies he performed on the suture patients. Dr. Rafi opined that ligating the uterine
artery”? to curtail blood loss during a hysterectomy is part and parcel to the entire procedure.
Accordingly, the ligation and hysterectomy should be billed together and not “ynbundled” and
billed separately as the Respondent did with the suture patients. Ligation of the abdominal artery
by entering the retroperitoneal space is a more complicated procedure. The procedure requires
the surgeon to ligate the artery at a higher space, which is a safer way to perform a hysterectomy.

Performing this specific procedure, however, requires advanced training. Although ligation of
the abdominal artery is a more sophisticated procedure requiring advanced training, Dr. Rafi
opined that the Respondent should only have billed CPT code 58554, which is the code for the
hysterectomy procedure itself — not 58554 and 37617. Dr. Rafi opined that even if the surgeon
were to ligate the internal iliac artery, which is an artery not attached to the uterus, but in

ee
33 The major artery supplying blood to the uterus. Tr. vol. 1, at 132.
: 34.
