absorbable. This suture is not chromic gut, which has been demonstrated to lead
to more postoperative granulation tissue. Reasonable choices, would include one
of the multifilament polyglycolic acid based sutures*! if stiffness is a greater
concern than’ capillarity, or one of the delayed absorption monofilament materials
such as polydioxanone or polyglyconate if minimizing inflammation is the goal. If
_one of the delayed absorption monofilaments is selected.
Resp. Ex. 26, at 155-56 (emphasis added). Accordingly, I shall recommend the charge of failure
to abide by the standatd of quality care for patients 1, 2, 4,5, 6 and 9 be upheld.
I further find the Respondent grossly overutilized health care services by placing
" Ethibond in the suture patients. The Respondent’s rationale for switching to the Ethibond sutures
was to prevent instances of VCD. The parties agree that VCD is a devastating complication of a
hysterectomy. When asked about the rate of VCD in his own practice, the Respondent testified

as follows:

Yes. This is a high-volume surgical practice. So, when you're doing 500/600

hysterectomies a year and you’re closing with a suture that allows VCD to occur,

the number of cases is going.to be higher. So, if you have a 2 percent breakdown

rate leading to VCD -- and VCD in this case is bowel moving outside the vagina.

That could be 12 to 15 patients a year and that can be quite difficult to have.
Tr. vol. 5, at 702-03 (emphasis added). However, when asked why he decided to switch to the
Ethibond, the Respondent cited only one VCD case,.a Vicryl patient of Dr. Danilyants. VCD was
a horrendous complication and experience for that patient. However, the Respondent provided no
specific annual average of actual VCD cases from his practice. In his written response to the
Board, the Respondent only vaguely says throughout his practice he and his partners have been

. “plagued” by incidents of VCD in outlying areas of the State not accessible to his practice. Bd.

Ex. 42, at 3-4. In his May 1, 2017 sworn statement to the Board, the Respondent testified to the
VCD case from Dr, Danilyants’s Vicryl patient. He further testified that “over the course of 10,

15 years” his practice has had “multiple. patients” experience VCD. Bd. Ex. 2, at PM 3621. The

 

51 These sutures are absorbable, Dolphin Sutures, https://www.dolphinsutures.com/pga-sutures (last visited Aug. 28,
2019).

51
