cuff closure and resulted in better rates of non-dehiscence versus Vicryl. These activities were
geared to the creation, collection and recording of data from patient records that did not exist before
October of 2013. The development, testing, and evaluation of Dr. MacKoul’s hypothesis were
based on his methodical, planned observations during the study. As the study progressed, Dr.
MacKoul and his research team collected the necessary data to accomplish his primary aim of
conducting statistical analyses and achieving a meaningful statistical comparison of the two
different suture materials. At no point did he obtain the informed consent required by the federal
regulations. After checking with his research director every month on whether they needed to
extend the research process, he stopped using Ethibond sutures in October 2016, once she told him
that shc had accrued the number of patients required (885) to hit a statistically significant power
analysis. Dr. MacKoul’s exceptions arguments are contrary to his accounts to the Board. Based on
its experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge, the Panel rejects his contentions
that his primary goal was innovation or quality improvement, or that his manuscript, Board
interview, and supplemental response to the peer review constitute irrelevant circumstantial
evidence. The Panel further rejects Dr. MacKoul’s argument that his subjective beliefs concerning
his actions were reasonable.
D. Expert Opinions

Dr. MacKoul also argues that the ALJ wrongly deferred to the opinion of Dr. Shamoo!®

over the opinion of Dr. Prentice. At the hearing, it was undisputed that both Dr. Shamoo and Dr.

Prentice each had the requisite training, knowledge, and educational backgrounds to testify on the

 

'6 The charges of improper human subject research reflect the expert opinion of Dr. Shamoo, whose educational,
experiential, and professional credentials in the areas of human subject research, IRB requirements, federal
regulations, and Maryland law were accepted by the ALJ and unchallenged by Dr. MacKoul at the evidentiary hearing.
(St. Exhs, 43, 44, 48, pp. 16-24; Tr. 271-72) There is no merit to Dr. MacKoul’s argument that these charges were
based on the opinion of Dr. Rafi, the Board’s peer reviewer. The Panel denies his exception.

24
