Dr. Shamoo opined that the Respondent is bound by the FDA guidelines and Maryland
law, not the ACOG guidelines. I agree with Dr. Shamoo. The Respondent may say he is
performing surgical innovation, but as discussed above, the facts suggest otherwise. Again, I find
Dr. Prentice relied more on what the Respondent said (which is self-serving) as opposed to what
the Respondent actually did. Furthermore, there is no evidence that adherence to ACOG
guidelines equates to adherence to the FDA guidelines and Maryland law. I find the Respondent

was bound by FDA guidelines and Maryland law.
Section 13-2002 of the Maryland Health General Article reads in full as follows:

(a) A person may not conduct research using a human subject unless the person
conducts the research in accordance with the federal regulations on the protection
of human subjects.

(b) Notwithstanding any provision in the federal regulations on the protection
of human subjects that limits the applicability of the federal regulations to certain

research, subsection (a) of this section applies to all research using a human
subject,

Thus, I find the Respondent, as a licensed Maryland physician whose ASC was located in
Maryland, was subject to the federal regulations on human subject research.
45 CER. § 46,102, entitled “Definitions for the purposes of this policy,” reads in

pertinent part as follows:’

(b) Clinical trial means a research study in which one or more human subjects
are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include
placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical ~
or behavioral health-related outcomes. .

(e)(1) Human subject means a living individual about whom an investigator
(whether professional or student) conducting research:
(i) Obtains information or biospecimens through intervention or interaction
with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the information or
_ biospecimens; or Loo
(ii) Obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable private
information or identifiable biospecimens. ‘ :

59
