reviewed journal. Id. When Dr. Van der Does became the full-time head of research at the end of
2014, she learned another doctor at the Respondent’s practice received IRB approval for a study
on hysterectomy approaches. Id. The Respondent no doubt paid Dr. Van der Does and other
members of his research team. In light of this, I do not find it credible the Respondent would
create a formal research team and engage in a study the size and length of the Ethibond study
without an intent to publish the results at the outset. Indeed, the Respondent did take steps to
publish, and ultimately did publish, the results. Resp. Ex. 39.

The Respondent contended that he was performing innovation in order to improve his
practice and that he was in compliance with ACOG guidelines. The Respondent is free to
innovate. However, as discussed above, I find he clearly moved beyond innovation into human
subject research. At the hearing, both Dr. Shamoo and Dr. Prentice testified with regard to the
Respondent’s use of Ethibond (an FDA regulated product) in an off-label manner. This
discussion concerned the lack of any specific mention on the Ethibond package insert of
Ethibond’s use in GYN surgery. Assuming the Respondent used Ethibond in an off-label
manner,*4 Dr. Prentice opined that the Respondent did not violate any regulations since he was
performing an innovation in his practice and not research. In his report, Dr. Prentice asserted that
such use was within ACOG guidelines. He writes:

In fact, FDA recognizes that physicians often use matketed products for off-label

use in the best interest of patients. FDA guidance states, “Use of a marketed

product in this manner when the intent is the practice of medicine does not require

submission of an investigational New Drug Application (IND), Investigational

Device Exemption (IDE), or review by an [IRB].”°5

Resp. Ex. 4, at 2.

a  ——

54 At the hearing, Dr. Prentice testified that because Ethibond was approved for use in soft tissues, the Respondent’s
use of it in closing the vaginal cuff might be considered ‘on label” use. :

55 Dr, Prentice cites https://www.fda.gov/Regulatoryinformation/Guidance/acm126486.htm as the source of this
quote. .

58
