that issue was a concern to the Board in his prior disciplinary order. In this instance, the Panel does
not find that his comments to Patient 10 rise to the level of unprofessional conduct.
VII. Human Subject Research and Expert Opinions

A. ALJ Findings and Conclusions

The ALJ found that Dr. MacKoul engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine with regard to the suture patients by violating the relevant federal regulations at 45 C.F.R.
Part 46,!°21 C.E.R. § 50 et seq.,!! 21 C.F.R. § 56 et seq.,!* and the statutory provisions of Maryland
law!} governing human subject research. Prop. Dec. at 55-59, 67-68. Specifically, the ALJ
determined that Dr. MacKoul (1) conducted prospective human subject research beginning in
October, 2013 when he began placing Ethibond sutures to close the vaginal cuff in his post-
laparoscopic hysterectomy patients; (2) intended, at that time, for his research to be eventually
submitted for publication to enhance the general knowledge of the medical community; (3) was
required to, but did not, obtain the approval of an Institutional Review Board (“IRB”) before

beginning this ongoing research, which continued until October, 2016; (4) formulated, in his mind,

10 Under the federal regulations: “Research ineans a systematic investigation, including research development, testing,
and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge.” 45 C.F.R. § 46.102(d). A human
subject is defined as:
“a living individual about whom an investigator conducting research obtains (1) data through intervention or
interaction with the individual, or (2) identifiable private information. Intervention includes both physical
procedures by which data are gathered and manipulations of the subject or the subject’s environment that are
performed for research purposes. Interaction includes communication or interpersonal contact between
investigator and subject. Private information . . . must be individually identifiable (i-c. the identity of the subject
is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator . . .) in order for obtaining the information to constitute
research involving human subjects.” 45.C.F.R. § 46.102(f).
‘| Non-absorbable surgical sutures are classified as a inedical device for human use and human subject research
regarding non-absorbable sutures is under the jurisdiction of the Federal Drug Administration (“FDA”). See 21 C.F.R.
50.3(b)(16)-(19). FDA regulations define a “human subject” as “an individual who is or who becomes a participant
in research, either as a recipient of the test article, or as the control.” 21 C.F.R. § 50.3(g). The regulations define “test
article” as “any ... medical device for human use ...” 21 C.F.R. § 50.3(j). “Clinical investigation” is defined as
“any experiment that involves a test article and one or more human subjects.” 21 C.F.R. § 50.3(c). FDA regulations
regarding the elements of informed consent are set forth in 21 C.F.R. § 50.25.
1221 C.F.R. Part 56 contains the general standards regarding Institutional Review Boards (“IRBs”).
13 The Maryland Heath General Article provides: “A person may not conduct research using a human subject unless
the person conducts the research in accordance with federal regulations on the protection of human subjects.” Md.
Code Ann., Health Gen. § 13-2002(a).

17
