$52,000 as the ultimate cost of the unnecessary procedure, based upon the 264 patients upon whom
he performed the suture removal after 90 days from the Ethibond hysterectomy, was also de
minimus. Dr. MacKoul argues that, because the costs were de minimus, his actions do “not qualify
as overutilization, let alone satisfy the higher showing of ‘gross overutilization.’”

Dr. MacKoul’s argument does not persuade the Panel, because the costs are neither
essential nor dispositive in determining whether one engaged in gross overutilization. Dr.
MacKoul does not provide any legal authority indicating that a finding of gross overutilization
requires that the costs reach a certain minimum level, and the Panel is not aware of any such legal
authority. Dr. MacKoul states that the General Assembly enacted the gross overutilization
disciplinary ground, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(19), “to deincentivise the overutilization of
healthcare services, which drive up costs.” While one of the reasons behind the Panel’s authority
to discipline physicians for grossly overutilizing health care services is to prevent unnecessary
health care costs, this is certainly not the only reason behind this disciplinary ground. The authority
to discipline physicians for grossly overutilizing health care services is also meant to prevent
physicians from subjecting patients to the risks involved in unnecessary procedures. Dr. MacKoul
unnecessarily subjected his patients who underwent the Ethibond hysterectomies to these risks.

Dr. MacKoul also makes the argument that the ALJ’s projection of costs for the 264
patients was improper because the charging document alleged that the reviewers found gross
overutilization in six of the nine cases reviewed. He relies upon COMAR 10.32.02.04B(2)(a),
which states that, in cases in which the disciplinary panel delegates to OAH the issuance of
findings of fact “only,” the delegation to OAH is limited to making findings of fact on allegations
which are disputed. This provision, however, is inapplicable, because the disciplinary panel did

not delegate to OAH the issuance of proposed findings of fact “only.” In addition to proposed
