The Respondent called Dr. Kondrup and Dr. Udoff to provide opinions on this issue. Dr.
Kondrup completed his OB/GYN training in 1988. He is board certified in OB/GYN and has
served as both a treating physician and an assistant clinical professor of medicine. Dr. Kondrup
_ has published numerous articles on the subject of OB/GYN surgery. Dr. Kondrup testified that
when removing fibroids, due to time constraints, the surgeon does not weigh the fibroids, That
task is left to the Pathologist. With regard to counting the fibroids, Dr. Kondrup wrote the
following in his report:

At the time of removal, the surgeon makes an estimate in both weight and number

{of fibroids]: The surgeon always relies upon the pathologist for ‘the exact number
of small fibroids, and the exact weight of the fibroids when they are together for

weighing. ... When removing as many fibroids as were removed in Patient 3, it is
common practice to make an estimate of the number of fibroids removed in the

OR and leave the exactitude of the number and weight to the pathologist.
Resp. Ex. 7, at 4.

At the hearing, Dr. Kondrup testified that a surgeon might specifically count the number
of fibroids removed if he or she knows in advance how many should be removed:

You estimate what you do. Sometimes we'll count fibroids just to be sure we

don’t leave them inside the abdomen. So, for example, the ~- the nurse will put on

a board a little score list. So, we took out 13, we went to get 13 out of the body.

Every surgeon is different. Once we get 12 and we spent the next hour looking for

number 13, which we eventually found.
Tr. vol. 4, at 527.
Dr. Udotf testified that in terms of Patient 3’s treatment, the removal of twenty-five or
forty-five fibroids was irrelevant given the Patient’s overall diagnosis of a “massively enlarged
fibroid uterus.””® At no point did Dr. Udoff testify that the removal of forty-five versus twenty-

five fibroids from Patient 3’s uterus is significant to any future fertility treatment. At the hearing,

ne

28 tp his report, Dr. Udoff does question why the operating note lists forty-five fibroids removed while the pathology
report lists twenty-five removed, Resp. Ex. 9, at 1. However, he does not conclude that discrepancy is indicative of a
failure to maintain accurate records on the part of the Respondent.

29
