Dr. Burke’s Crimes Involved Moral Turpitude

Dr. Burke argues that the crime he pled guilty to is not a crime involving moral turpitude.
In his guilty plea, Dr. Burke admitted that his conduct constituted all the elements of the criminal
charges. In so pleading, he admitted that he, as an authorized provider, intentionally and
knowingly prescribed, administered, manufactured, distributed, dispensed or possessed CDS not
in the course of his regular professional duties and not in conformance with Title 5 of the
Criminal Law Article and the standards of the profession. Dr. Burke did not dispute the elements
of the charges to which he pled guilty and he accepted the plea agreement. Dr, Burke cannot
now challenge the sufficiency of the evidence or collaterally attack the final judgment entered
upon the Court’s acceptance of his guilty plea. See Oltman, 162 Md. App. at 487 (“[A]ppellant
cannot now collaterally attack the conclusive final judgment of the criminal court in his case, ...
To the contrary, the . . . court’s final judgment is conclusive proof of [appellant’s] guilt of the
crime charged.”) (internal quotation marks and citations omitted), The Court of Appeals has
established that although violations of the Maryland Controlled Substances Act “will ordinarily
involve moral turpitude, each case must be decided on its own facts.” Attorney Grievance
Comm’n of Maryland vy, Proctor, 309 Md. 412, 419 (1987).

Through his guilty plea, Dr. Burke admitted to knowingly and intentionally issuing
prescriptions for CDS not in accordance with his regular professional duties and outside of the
standards of the medical profession. Dr. Burke’s conduct was not just outside of the acceptable
standards of medical practice; it was illegal. As the Court stated to Dr. Burke during sentencing,
“I am absolutely convinced you violated your oath. In addition to violating the law, you violated
your oath,” ‘The Court went on to explain. that the public relies on medical professionals to

appropriately prescribe drugs because lay people, especially those with an addiction problem, do
