not know and have no way of knowing which drugs are appropriate to be taking. In prescribing
drugs outside of the standards of the medical profession, Dr. Burke’s criminal conduct showed
such disregard for social norms and the ethical standards of the medical profession that he
undermined the public’s confidence in the profession. See Stidwell, 144 Md. App. at 619 (a
criminal offense that undermines the public’s confidence in a profession may be a crime of moral
turpitude if so determined by the appropriate licensing board). In the Panel’s view, based on the
facts of this case, Dr, Burke acted “contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and
duty” that he owes to his fellow citizens in the State of Maryland and, as such, his convictions
constituted crimes involving moral turpitude. Walman, 280 Md. at 459,

Section 14-404(b)(2) Mandates Revocation of Dr. Burke’s Medical License

Second, Dr. Burke argues that there is no cited precedent for the summary revocation of
his license with no due process and no evidentiary hearing. Dr. Burke is incorrect, In enacting
Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(2), the Maryland General Assembly has authorized summary revocation
of a license for crimes involving moral turpitude. The Court of Appeals in Felsenberg
determined that “(t]he intent of the Legislature in directing summary treatment of a charge based
on the conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude is clear,” 351 Md, at 304.

In this case, the State appropriately initiated revocation procedures under Health Occ, §
14-404(b)(2). Unlike cases charged under Health Occ. § 14-404(a), where a licensee has the
right to an evidentiary hearing and the opportunity to appear at a DCCR for a settlement
conference, there is no statutory or regulatory right to a hearing for cases charged under Health
Occ. § 14-404(b), Rather, the decision to grant a hearing is discretionary based on the existence
of genuine issues of material fact or law as determined by the disciplinary panel. COMAR

10.32.02.07E(3). The Felsenberg Court explained, “when the charge rests solely upon the
