conviction, there is no need to inquire into the underlying conduct” and that the question of
“Tw]hether the crime is one involving moral turpitude is an issue which ordinarily may be
resolved without the need for evidence or fact-finding.” 351 Md. at 303.

As noted in footnote 2, Dr, Burke was previously charged under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)
and received the opportunity to appear at a DCCR for a settlement conference in connection with
that case. The DCCR conference was originally scheduled for March 27, 2019. At Dr. Burke’s
request, the DCCR conference was postponed, and rescheduled to September 25, 2019. During
the pendency of the charges filed under Health Occ. § 14-404(a), the proceedings in this case
were initiated under Health Occ. § 14-404(b). Notwithstanding the pendency of the charges
under Health Occ, § 14-404(a), which were filed prior to Dr. Burke’s criminal conviction, the
Panel was authorized to initiate separate proceedings under Health Occ. § 14-404(b) after Dr.
Burke pled guilty and was convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude. See Felsenberg, 351
Mad. at 304 (“The fact that particular conduct is proscribed by two or more statutes does not mean
that there is a conflict between them; nor does it ordinarily preclude a prosecution under any one
of the statutes that applies, notwithstanding that the procedures or penalty applicable to that
statute are more onerous than under another applicable statute.”).

The Panel followed the appropriate process in statute and the Board’s regulations for
resolution of cases involving a crime of moral turpitude. In doing so, Dr. Burke was given the
opportunity to submit a written response to the Petition and to request a hearing limited to the
issues appropriately addressed in his written response. See COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), (3). As
discussed above, the decision to grant a hearing is discretionary based on the existence of
genuine issues of material fact or law as determined by the disciplinary panel. See COMAR

10,32.02.07E(3). Dr. Burke did not request a hearing in accordance with COMAR
