3, Counts 13, 16, 40, 47 and 59 charge Dr. Burke with unlawfully intentionally and
knowingly, as an authorized provider, prescribing, administering, manufacturing,
distributing, dispensing, or possessing a CDS not in the course of regular professional
duties and not in conformance with Title 5 of the Criminal Law Article and the standards
of the authorized provider's profession.

4, In accepting Dr. Burke’s guilty plea, the Court found that Dr. Burke understood the
nature of the charges, the trial and appellate rights he was surrendering, and the other
possible negative consequences of a guilty finding. The Court found that Dr. Burke
knowingly, freely, voluntarily and intelligently entered the plea of guilty.

5. Thereafter, the Court sentenced Dr. Burke to ten years of incarceration, with all but three
years suspended, and gave credit for time served. Dr. Burke was sentenced to three years
of probation effective upon his release from incarceration with conditions that included
the surrender of Dr. Burke’s Drug Enforcement Administration and Maryland CDS
registrations during the period of probation, random urinalysis, drug and alcohol
evaluation, testing, and treatment, and abstaining from alcohol and drugs.

6. Dr. Burke did not appeal his convictions within the time prescribed by law and the guilty
plea and convictions have not been set aside.

DISCUSSION

Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), a response to a show cause order must be limited
to the following issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b) Whether the crime is one involving
moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the defendant in the criminal matter; and
(d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.” Dr. Burke does not deny that he pled
guilty to five counts of prescribing, administering, manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, or
possessing a CDS not in the course of regular professional duties and not in conformance with
Title 5 of the Criminal Law Article and the standards of the authorized provider’s profession,
Nor does he argue that he was misidentified as the defendant in the criminal case. Rather, Dr.
Burke argues that (1) the crime he pled guilty to is not a crime involving moral turpitude; and (2)

he should be entitled to address the Panel, respond to questions, and explain the mitigating
