Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Shastine Abate, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

planned retirement. I acknowledge that the Consent Order remains and will continue to
be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender,
I will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Consent Order as long as I do
not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that ] have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution for violating the Consent Order. I
acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be able to prove

that I violated the Consent Order by a preponderance of the evidence and that such
charges shall be treated as proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a
hearing to contest any charges related to my violation of the Consent Order. In waiving
my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel
at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own
behalf, and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including
the right to appeal to a circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

1 further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose terms and conditions in conformity with or in addition to those set forth in
the Consent Order. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I

will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license
has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel “A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
