17.

Respondent “that this was not helping and directed him to areas on her
legs that were in pain.” At some point she fell asleep. After about two to
three hours, she left the office.

On Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at approximately 11:00 a.m., she
went to the Respondent's office “for treatment.” She again received “a
shot that made her sleepy.” The Respondent began massaging her “in
the same way.” She was “suspicious of his methods” so she told him she
just wanted to sleep. She put her pants and underwear on and “pretended
to fall asleep.” He left the room and returned in a few minutes. The
Respondent pulled down her pants and underwear and inserted his
fingers in her vagina. The Respondent did this several times and he also
“grabbed her on the breast and buttocks.” She “wanted to scream” but
“knew there was no one else in the office.” She then “pretended to wake
up” and he began massaging her leg. The Respondent told her she was
having a spasm in her leg while she slept and he was “rubbing it out.” She
fell asleep. When she awoke, the Respondent was sitting next to her and
rubbing her leg. She was experiencing “significant pain” in her vagina.
She noticed that the Respondent had braided her hair while she was
asleep. He was talking with her and said, “something about a wife.” She
got up and attempted to leave but the Respondent hugged her and asked
her to sit down. He talked with her for several minutes and then “insisted”
on driving her home. Later, the Respondent sent a text to her telephone
asking if the medication he had prescribed was working. She responded
that it was “the wrong medication.” She did not return to his office.

On December 14, 2017, the School Resource Officer transported Patient

2, and Patient 2’s mother to the Crimes Against Children Unit (CACU) of the BCPD,

where Patient 2 was forensically interviewed by a supervisor of the Department of

Social Services.

18.

In addition to the information that Patient 2 previously provided to the

School Resource Officer, Patient 2 stated that prior to December 11, 2017, the

medication for pain which the Respondent gave her did not make her sleepy. However,

on December 11, 12, and 13, 2017, she became very sleepy and had great difficulty

staying alert about a half hour after the Respondent gave her an injection. Patient 2’s

pain is in her back, legs, and shoulder.
