regarding sexual assault of two female patients, Patient 1? and Patient 2, a teenager. The
Respondent was detained in the Baltimore County Detention Center and held without bail. On
January 2, 2018, after a bail review hearing, the Respondent’s detention without bail was

continued.
I. Background

1. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland
on June 5, 1996, under license number D50652. He last renewed his license in or
about September 2017, which will expire on September 30, 2019.

2. At all times relevant to this Order, the Respondent maintained an office for
the solo practice of medicine under the name of “Get Well Immediate Care” at 7825
York Road, Towson, Maryland, which the Respondent opened on July 1, 2015.4 The
office is directly across the street from Towson University. At the time of the complaints
to the Board, the Respondent's sole employee was a practice administrator.

3. According to the Respondent’s website, the Respondent offers “concierge
medicine” in addition to immediate medical care. The Respondent’s concierge medicine
plan includes house calls and 24/7 texting service.

4. Prior to opening “Get Well Immediate Care,” the Respondent worked at an

urgent care center in Bel Air, Maryland.

? Patient names are confidential and are not used in this document. The Respondent may obtain a
Confidential Patient Identification List on request from the Administrative Prosecutor.

° According to the Statement of Charges, the Respondent is charged with assault in the second degree
and a sexual offense in the fourth degree (sexual contact with another without the consent of the other)
regarding Patient 1. The Respondent is charged with assault in the second degree, sexual abuse of a
minor (a person who has temporary care or custody or responsibility for the supervision of a minor may
not cause sexual abuse to the minor), rape in the second degree, and sexual offense in the third degree,
regarding Patient 2.

4 A Baltimore Sun newspaper article of June 22, 2015, described the office as a “walk-in health clinic.”
The Respondent was quoted in the article as stating he is “aiming at the college student market.” The
article further stated that the clinic will open with about 11 physicians, mental health therapists, nurse-
practitioners, laboratory technicians and medical assistants. It is not known whether the Respondent ever
achieved this level of staffing.
