last night took peptobismal (sic) last night, abdominal pain.” The Respondent's
handwritten note of Patient 1’s recent history is not legible. The Respondent assessed
“gastro, viral” and recommended (illegible) diet.

15. |The Respondent's medical records do not state that Patient 1 complained
of a vaginal discharge. The Respondent did not document any concern about “vaginal
discharge” and did not document a vaginal physical examination.

IV. Patient 2

Patient 2’s Criminal Complaint of Sexual Misconduct

16. On December 14, 2017, Patient 2 and her mother, contacted the assistant
principal of Patient 2’s high school requesting to report a sexual assault. The School
Resource Officer interviewed Patient 2, alone. Patient 2 reported that she has been a
patient of the Respondent for about one year and sees him for pain management.
Patient 2 reported the following:

a. On Monday, December 11, 2017, she went to the Respondent's office.
The Respondent administered “an unknown shot” to help her pain. The
shot makes her feel tired and she “often falls asleep.” The Respondent
told her he would try massage therapy. The Respondent asked her to
remove her pants and underwear and lay on the examination table. The
Respondent massaged her upper leg and buttocks. The Respondent
massaged her shoulders reaching in front, “touching her breast numerous
times.” The Respondent “was not focusing on the areas” that were
causing her pain. She would redirect the Respondent to those areas but
he would go back to massaging her buttocks and breast areas. After
being in the office about three hours, she told the Respondent she wanted
to leave and go to school. The Respondent “insisted” on driving her to her
school.

b. On Tuesday, December 12, 2017, she presented to the Respondent's
office “for treatment.” The Respondent again gave her “a shot” to help
with her pain. The Respondent again began massage therapy “much like
what occurred” on December 11, 2017. The Respondent “attempted to
stretch her muscles in the area of her vagina.” Patient 2 told the

8 Apparently, the Respondent has administered this “shot” to Patient 2 on previous occasions.

5
