Philip W. Halstead, M.D.

Date: qprelg

Damean W.O. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Philip W. Halstead, M.D.
License Number: D50803
Case Number: 7719-0117

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D50803, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, | may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et
seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”’).

I acknowledge that, pursuant to the May 24, 2019 Order After Show Cause
Hearing, Panel B found that I violated a prior Order After Show Cause Hearing and, as
part of the sanction, my Maryland medical license was suspended until I enroll in and
undergo and complete a comprehensive evaluation by the Clinical Competence
Assessment Program administered by the Center for Personalized Education for
Professionals. (Attached as Exhibit 1). In lieu of complying with the terms in the Order
After Show Cause Hearing, I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender.

 
