established care guidelines for routinely encountered conditions. The report made 13
recommendations and suggested that Dr. Halstead focus on (1) organizing his approach to each
patient visit to focus on the patient’s condition and presenting complaint, (2) documenting a
complete note at each visit, and (3) using on-line resources to access treatment guidelines.

During the second quarter, Physician A had three phone conferences with Dr. Halstead
where they reviewed patient charts from February, March, and April 2018. Dr. Halstead did not
meet face-to-face with the supervisor, as required by the Panel’s Order, during this quarter. The
second quarterly report was submitted on July 16, 2018. The supervisor’s report found no
improvement of organization and legibility of Dr. Halstead’s charts, a continued failure to list the
chief patient complaints, a failure to document treatment history, physical exams that were not
appropriate to the presenting complaint, a failure to investigate the presenting complaint, a
failure to order essential tests and diagnostic studies, and a failure to record complete treatment
plans. Physician A added to the previous recommendations that Dr. Halstead take a course in
internal medicine review to address knowledge gaps, instruction for evidence-based care, and
optimizing his electronic medical records. He also included seven other specific clinical practice
recommendations.

During the third quarter, Physician A had phone conferences with Dr. Halstead to review
patient charts from May, June, and July 2018. Dr. Halstead, again, did not meet face-to-face
with the supervisor, in violation of the Panel’s Order. The third quarterly report was submitted
on September 24, 2018. The report noted several areas of concern that were carry-over problems
from his previous reports, including a failure to approach treatment planning systematically by
setting goals and a failure to track and measure progress. Physician A was “most concerned

about the lack of basic knowledge in terms of conducting and recording diagnostic investigation
