 

The ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Dr. Kass and the Administrative
Prosecutor at the parties’ respective addresses of record, and to the Board. The Proposed Default
Order notified the parties that they may file written exceptions to the proposed order but must do
so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed Default Order. The Proposed Default Order stated
that any exceptions and request for a hearing must be sent to the Board with a copy provided to
the opposing party. Neither party filed exceptions. The case came before Disciplinary Panel A
(“Panel A”) of the Board for final disposition.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Because Panel A concludes that Dr. Kass has defaulted and has not filed exceptions to the
ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following Findings of Fact are adopted from the Allegations
of Fact in the January 12, 2021 charges and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the
evidence:
1. At all times relevant, Dr. Kass was licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland. Dr. Kass was originally licensed to practice on or about October 2, 1996,
under License Number D51250. *

2. Dr. Kass is not currently board-certified. Dr. Kass’s board certification in
Otolaryngology expired in 2015.

3. Dr. Kass owned and operated a private practice providing medical services related to

ear, nose and throat care (the “Practice”) in Bethesda, Maryland. While his current

employment status is unknown at this time, the Board has reason to believe that the

2 Dr. Kass’s license was set to expire on September 30, 2020. Dr. Kass’s license did not expire because of his non-
renewal, however, A license may not lapse by operation of law “while the individual is under investigation or while
charges are pending.” Health Occ. § 14-403(a); see also Salerian v. Board of Physicians, 176 Md. App. 231, 247
(2007). The Board’s investigation of Dr. Kass began in 2019. Because the charges against Dr. Kass were still
“pending” as that term is used in the statute in September 2020, his license did not lapse or expire and remained active
for disciplinary purposes throughout the Board’s investigative, charging, and administrative proceedings.

ss ERRORS
