On April 22, 2021, OAH mailed a Notice of Telephone Prehearing Conference via Google
Meet (Notice of Telephone Prehearing Conference) to each party at their respective addresses of
record. The Notice of Telephone Prehearing Conference informed the parties of the date, time,
and location of the Telephone Prehearing Conference, enclosed instructions pertaining to joining
the Telephone Prehearing Conference via the Google Meet audiovisual platform, and directed each
party to prepare and submit a Prehearing Statement in advance of the Telephone Prehearing
Conference. Further, the Notice of Telephone Prehearing Conference informed the parties that
failure to attend the Telephone Prehearing Conference scheduled for May 18, 2021 could result in
a decision against the party failing to appear. The Notice of Telephone Prehearing Conference
mailed to Dr. Kass at his address of record in Maryland was not returned to the OAH as
undeliverable by the United States Postal Service. (“USPS”).

In addition, the ALJ also sent a letter to the parties dated April 20, 2021, in which he
advised the parties that the Telephone Prehearing Conference was scheduled for May 18, 2021, at
10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time, and expressly cautioned the parties that a party’s failure to
appear at the Telephone Prehearing Conference may result in the issuance of a decision against
that party with respect to the Board’s charges. This letter was mailed to Dr. Kass’s address of
record with the Board in Bethesda, Maryland, and also emailed to him at his email address of
record with the Board. The letter addressed to Dr. Kass’s Maryland address of record was not
returned by the USPS. The letter was also mailed to Dr. Kass at a partial or incomplete address in
Ethiopia that he had previously provided to the Board. The letter mailed to the Ethiopia address
was returned by the USPS as undeliverable.

The ALJ emailed a Google Meet invitation for the May 18, 2021 Telephone Prehearing

Conference to the parties on May 17, 2021, and emailed a reminder on May [8, 2021, prior to the

sjosopesnspemamentneonntchow these armscr-ce
