 

first “send them to a drug program,” and for “substance abuse counseling.” According to
the Respondent, if a patient has a second inconsistent urine drug screen, he will “discharge
them with a 30-day supply of medicine.”
C. Peer Review

16. As part of its investigation, the Board referred ten patient records obtained
from the Respondent (Patients 1-10) and related materials to a peer review entity.

17. Two peer reviewers who are both board-certified in pain management and
physical medicine/rehabilitation, separately reviewed the ten patient records and submitted

their individual reports to the Board.

18. The peer reviewers concurred that the Respondent did not meet the standard
of quality care for all ten patients for reasons including, but not limited to:

a. The Respondent prescribed and maintained non-cancer patients on high
doses of opioids ranging from approximately 90 to 390 MME? per day
(Patients 1-10). The Respondent prescribed all ten patients over 200
MME per day at some point over the course of their treatment;

b. The Respondent failed to reduce or make a concerted effort to attempt to
reduce opioid doses to 90 MME per day or below (Patients 1-10);

c. The Respondent continued to prescribe and refill opioids in the presence
of “inconsistent” drug screens (e.g., positive for illicit substances,
positive for non-prescribed narcotics, and/or negative for prescribed
opioids) or other aberrant behavior (e.g., self-escalation) with no
documented attempts to refer patients for substance abuse treatment and
counseling, taper the patients off opioids, or discharge the patients from
his practice (Patients 1-10);

> Morphine Milligram Equivalence (“MME”) is a value assigned to each opioid to represent its
relative potency by using morphine as the standard comparison. The CDC Guideline for Prescribing
Opioids for Chronic Pain ( the “CDC Guideline”) uses MME to establish a recommended opioid dosing
and recommends using precaution when prescribing opioid doses greater than or equal to 50 MME per day
and avoiding or carefully justifying a decision to increase opioid doses greater than or equal to 90 MME
per day.
