ORDERED that Spencer F. Johnson MDs license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED for a minimum period of ONE YEAR.’ The suspension goes into effect 30 days
from the date of execution of this Order, to give Dr. Johnson time to transition his patients to
other providers and the following provisions apply during the suspension:

(1) Dr. Johnson shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the
public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Johnson’s name or provider number
by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(e) dispense medications; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license;

(2) Dr. Johnson shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(“MPRP”), Within 5 business days, Dr. Johnson shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, Dr. Johnson shall enter into
a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP.
Dr. Johnson shal! fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals,
rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions of any
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
into with MPRP and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

(3) Dr. Johnson shall sign written release/consent forms, and update them, as required by
the Board and MPRP. Dr, Johnson shall sign written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order. Dr.
Johnson shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(4) Dr. Johnson shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive. from) outside entities (including all of Dr.
Johnson’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Dr. Johnson and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical

 

4 The suspension will not be terminated if Dr. Johnson fails to renew his license. If Dr. Johnson’s
license expires while his license is suspended, the suspension period is tolled. COMAR
10.32.02,05C(3).

14
