‘In its opening statement, the Board referred to Finucan v Maryland Board of Physician
" Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577 (2004), and Salerian v. Maryland State Board of Physicians, |
176 Md. App. 231 (2007), as case law that addresses the meaning of unprofessional conduct in ,
the practice of medicine:”*

The Finucan decision addressed whether a physician’s sexual relationship with patients
was unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Court stated the following:

A parallel sexual relationship between a physician and a patient compromises

the physician-patient relationship, violates the ethics of the profession, and

- reflects on the fitness of the physician to practice medicine, Finucan used his

professional skills and his knowledge of his three female patients’ personal

and familial situations to play upon their emotional vulnerabilities, even if

they facially consented to the sexual relationships. The facts Support a find-

ing that he abused his professional status and knowledge by losing obj ectivity

and recommending treatment for them for his own gratification, rather than

for what objectively was best for the patients. For these reasons, a physician

who enters into such a dual relationship commits unprofessional conduct “in

_ the practice of medicine.”

Finucan, 380 Md. at 595-596. The case before me does not involve a physician in a sexual
relationship with a patient. The holding in Finucan is not applicable to the case before‘me.

The Salerian decision addressed whether-a psychiatrist’s disclosure of information about
an individual that the psychiatrist obtained during a forensic interview of the individual as a
member of the individual’s defense team was unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

In this case, the psychiatrist leamed about the individual’s history of “sexual betrayal and

exploitation” of his wife during the forensic interview. The psychiatrist (Salerian) revealed that

 

4 «practice medicine’ means to engage, with or without compensation, in medical (i) Diagnosis; (ii) Healing, (iii)
Treatment; or (iv) Surgery.” It includes “doing, imdertakig, professing to do, and attempting any of the following:
Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing for, or removing any physical, mental, or emotional ailment or
supposed ailment of an individual: 1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that is exercised or invoked
by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or 2. By-appliance, test; drug, operation, or treatment; (ii) Ending of a human
pregnancy; and (iil) Performing acupuncture as provided under § 14-504 of this title. Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§ 14-101(0) (Supp. 2018).

26
