Medical records show that Person 1 was treated at the Hospital that same day. Her chief
complaints were “problems with her-face,” assault, and “problem with abdomen.” She was .
given a tetanus shot and prescriptions for hydrocodone, amoxicillin, and acetaminophen, She
was discharged with the following diagnoses: “Assault by human bite, Muscle pain, Contusion
of multiple sites, Fracture nasal bones [diagnosed via a compirted tomography scan], Victim of
physical assault.” Id. Tab 7. |

The Respondent was treated at Patient First shortly afler 8:00 p.m. on August 6, 2016,
His complaint was “facial injuries.” He was diagnosed with. contusion and abrasion of “other
. part of head,” “fd. Tab 10.7) It is unclear what, if any, treatment he. .

Based on the review of the evidence discussed above, I find that the Respondent and
Person 1 engaged in a physical fight on August 6, 2016, in the building where Respondent
conducts his practice, during his office hours, and while patients were scheduled

‘The Board took the position that it did not matter who started or was the aggressor at this .
fight. In its closing argument, the Board argued the fight should not have occurred at all and
commented that it occurred in “an office” while the Respondent “4s havingoffice hours.” 1
disagree. A doctor, even one licensed by the Board to practice medicine, has the right to defend
him- or herself against assault and battery, Surely, a licensed psychiatrist who practices marriage
therapy cannot be impermissibly engaging in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine
if he defends himself against an irate husband who barges into the psychiatrist's office while be
is in session only with the wife and attacks the psychiatrist because -he thinks the psychiatrist i is
having an affair with his wife. A license to practice medicine does not strip a doctor of the right

to self-defense, In this regard, I find several facts si pnificant,

 

2 The photographs of the Respondent’ 's purported facial injuries that are part of the record at Bd. Ex. 31, Tab 11 are’
too dark to show any injuries.
2 This is not supported by'the record,

19
