Patient 2 testified the she received a text message from Person 1 that said the Respondent
had tried to kill her and kick her down the stairs, Patient 2 testified she was “flabbergasted” and
. “felt hurt” for Person 1. Patient 2 testified that she decided to end her and Ps treatment
with the Respondent because “the trust... is gone.” In relation to this issue, I am not persuaded
that Patient 2 discontinued her treatment with the Respondent based on the fight for several
‘reasons. First, she does not mention that in-either of her complaints to the Board. Second, in
her interview with the. Board, she said that the Respondent’s disclosures about her and 7
made her “extremely distraught” and she started to look for a new psychiatrist, Also, her
testimony about this issue was unclear, She testified the fight was the reason she decided to stop
treatment with the Respondent but immediately pivoted from that to testify about her loss of
trust in the Respondent.based on the disclosures. In reviewing this testimony, it seemed to me
that the Patient was actually connecting her decision to find anew therapist to the disclosure that
to the fight. Furthermore, as discussed above, I find Person 1 was clearly at-fault for this fight;
the Respondent had not invited her to his office; she came to the Office angry and ready to fight,;
and the Respondent removed her from the office to avoid her behavior from having any effect on
his patients. Furthermore, Person 1 told Patient 1 that the Respondent tried to kill her, something
that is not supported by the record. Therefore, Patient 2 was reacting to something that has not
been found on the record before me to have been a fact.

Patient 1 did not tell the Board that she ended treatment with the Respondent. She told
the Board that she received a letter from the Respondent that he was ending his treatment of her.
Patient 1 said she did not know why the Respondent stopped his treatment of her, but she

_ accepted it and looked for someone else to treat her. I do not find that Patient 1 discontinued

31
