extortion defense. Third, the Board argued that the Respondent’ s “parsing” responses to
questions during direct examination undermined his credibility. .

The Respondent argued that Person J is not credible for at least two reasons. First
Respondent argued that during her testimony, Person 1 “readily admitted she had committed a
fraud” by using a letter that falsely stated she was employed with.a good salary in order to.
purchase a luxury automobile. Second, Ms. Bragg, an unbiased witness; testified that Person 1
had victimized her by falsély complaining she engaged in unprofessional misconduct while
providing service to Person 1.

Person 1’s credibility

During the hearing, Person 1 unapologetically admitted to intentionally obtaining and
" using a wholly false written statement to purchase a luxury automobile. Board Ex. 22 includes a
letter on Ea letterhead, dated March 13, 2015. The letter is addressed to
Person 1 and states:

[Person 1] please see the following information as proof of your ‘employment
with

[Person 1] is the site supervisor for-all the EE oh

contract with us, She is responsible for ensuring all work is completed at 4

locations, she has been an employee since 2/03/2014. She is a salaried employee

and is exempt from overtime. [Person Ps] salary is $68,000 per year. She has

elected not to enroll in or [sic] employee benefits program and has her own health

insurance. If you have any questions please contact me at 301-978-1540.
Bd. Ex. 22, This letter is signed by an individual identified as the “Managing Partner.” At the
hearing, Person 1 admitted that she was unemployed at the time this letter was written. She
farther admitted that she used this wholly false letter to purchase a BMW XS. During cross-
examination, she at first testified that the Respondent allowed her to use Skytocket Production,

his video production company, to purchase the automobile. Upon further questioning, she
é

changed that testimony to say that the Respondent “hooked” this up for her “through one of his

Ti
