charged under the sexual misconduct regulations, presumably because the sexual misconduct
regulations did not apply to the facts of this case.

The ALJ attempted to factually distinguish the Finucan case, stating that in the facts in
Finucan, a physician was found guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine for
having sexual relationships with patients, while, the facts in this case, Dr. Johnson’s sexual
relationship was with a patient’s daughter. The ALJ, thus, found that Finucan was inapplicable.
Panel B rejects the ALJ’s refutation of Finucan and agrees with the reasoning of the Court of
Appeals in that case, The entanglement between the sexual relationships and physician-patient
relationship, the exploitation of the patient to advance the physician’s sexual interests, the loss of
objectivity and placing his needs for gratification above the patient’s wishes or best interests and
potential damage to the patient are just as applicable in this situation where the sexual activity
was with the patient’s daughter and not the patient. See Finucan, 380 Md. at 599.

In the proposed decision, the ALJ stated that the State presented no legal authority to
support a finding of unprofessional conduct for having a sexual relationship with a non-patient.
However, the legal authority for that finding is the same as the legal authority for the other
boundary violations: “‘common judgment’ of the profession,” legal precedent, and the Principles
of Ethics. See Finucan, 380 Md. at 593. Here, the conduct found to be unprofessional by the
ALJ stemmed from Dr. Johnson’s sexual relationship with Person 1 and cannot be separated, as
the ALJ suggests. Dr. Johnson put his own interests, i.e. his sexual relationship with Person 1,
above his patient’s (Person 1’s mother’s) medical needs. Dr. Johnson merged his personal and
professional relationships, put his own needs for gratification above the patient’s psychiatric
treatment, and compromised the care of his patient. These are the same concerns and negative

outcomes that were discussed by the court in Finucan. Dr. Johnson’s behavior, as a whole, is

9
