activity to the individual’s wife and, after the individual and the defense team discharged his
engagement with them, to the media.

The Court addressed several arguments raised by Salerian. Of possible relevance here,
Salerian argued that his disclosure of information to the media was not while he was “practicing
medicine” because it'occurred aftet his “association” with the individual and-his defense team
had ended. The Court rejected this argument by explaining: “(Salerian’s] ethical duty to
maintain. Evaluee’s confidences did not end when [Salerian] was terminated from the defense
team... 2? Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 252, The Court further identified the standard to
determine whether a physician’s conduct was “in the practice of medicine”: “The touchstone for
determining whether misconduct occurred ‘in the practice of medicine’ must be whether it was
‘sufficiently intertwined with patient care’ to pose a threat to-patients or the medical profession.”
Id. at page 253 (quoting Cornfeld v. State Bd. of Physicians, 174 Ma. App. 456, 476 (2007).

The record also includes the American Psychiatric Association’s The Principles of
Medical Ethics, 2013 Edition (Piinciples). Although the Principles were not referred or cited to
during either party’s closing argument, the Board addressed the following principles during its
_ cross-examination of the Respondent:

e.A physician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical care with
compassion and respect for human dignity and rights,

1. A psychiatrist shall not gratify his or her own needs by exploiting the.
patient. The psychiatrist shall be ever vigilant about the impact that his or her
conduct has upon the boundaries of the doctor‘patient relationship, and thus the
well-being of the patient. These requirements become particularly important
because of the essentially private, highly personal, and sometimes intensely
emotional nature of the relationship established with the psychiatrist.
© A physician shall uphold the standards.of professionalism, be honest in all
professional interactions and strive to. report physicians deficient in charac-

ter or competence, or engaging in fraud or deception to appropriate entities.
1. The requirement that the physician conduct himself/herself with pro-

priety in his or her profession and in all the actions of ‘his or her life is espe-
cially important in the case of the psychiatrist because the patient tends to

model his or her behavior after that of his or her psychiatrist by identification.
27
