his improper disclosure of confidential medical information constitute unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine.

Boundary Violations and Sexual Relationship with Person 1

Dr. Johnson met Person 1, the adult daughter of Patient 1, when Person 1 accompanied
Patient 1 to Patient 1’s psychiatric appointments. By engaging in a sexual relationship with
Person 1, Dr. Johnson became involved in Patient 1’s personal life. Dr. Johnson used his
physician/patient relationship with Patient 1 to initiate his sexual relationship with Person 1. The
ethical principles state that a physician should not gratify his or her own needs by exploiting a
patient. See Principles of Ethics § 1.1. Dr. Johnson and Person 1 also tried to hide their sexual
relationship from Patient 1, which violated Dr, Johnson’s obligation to be honest with his
patients. See Principles of Ethics § 2. A patient must be notified of all information which may
have a significant impact on his or her treatment. Furthermore, after becoming aware of the
sexual relationship, Patient 1 stated that she disapproved of it and tried to stop it, but Dr. Johnson
neither discontinued his treatment of Patient 1 nor ended.his sexual relationship with Person 1.
By continuing his relationship with Person 7" Dr. Johnson “plac{ed] his own needs for
gratification above the patient’s wishes or best interests.” Finucan, 380 Md. at 599. See also
Principles of Ethics § 1.1.

Dr. Johnson’s sexual relationship with Patient 1°s daughter resulted in him becoming
involved in Patient 1’s personal life. As the court in Finucan noted, sexual relationships with
patients are forbidden, because “[t]he sexual relationships may . . . become entangled with the
physician-patient relationship.” Finucan, 380 Md. at 599. Dr. Johnson encouraged Patient 1 and
Person | to open a hair salon business. Once it opened, he financially supported the business by

buying furniture and paying the rent, He paid Patient 1 for babysitting Person 1’s children. Dr.

7
