records of Dr. Johnson, including, but not limited to, mental health.and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Johnson shall not withdraw his/her release/consent;

(5) within ONE YEAR, Dr. Johnson shall successfully complete two Board-approved
courses, One course shall be about maintaining confidentiality of the psychiatrist-patient
relationship, A second course shall be about maintaining proper boundaries in the
treatment of patients and in the psychiatrist-patient relationship. The following terms
apply: :
(a) it is Dr. Johnson’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the disciplinary
panel’s approval of the course before the course'is begun,
(b) the disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the internet,
(c) Dr. Johnson must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that he has
successfully completed the course;
(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal; ;
(e) Dr. Johnson is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further
ORDERED that, prior to the termination of suspension, MPRP, or its agents, shall
conduct an evaluation to determine whether Dr. Johnson is-fit to resume clinical practice, and if
so, under what conditions. Dr. Johnson shall fully cooperate with the evaluation; and it is further
ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Final Decision
and Order has passed and if Dr. Johnson has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and
conditions for the suspension, Dr. Johnson may submit a written petition to Disciplinary Panel B
for termination of the suspension. Dr. Johnson may be required to appear before Disciplinary
Panel B to discuss his petition for termination. If Disciplinary Panel B determines that it is safe
for Dr. Johnson to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be terminated through
an order of Disciplinary Panel B, and Disciplinary Panel B may impose any terms and conditions
it deems appropriate on Dr. Johnson’s return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation.

If Disciplinary Panel B determines that it is not safe for Dr. Johnson to return to the practice of

medicine, the suspension shall be continued through an order of Disciplinary Panel B for a length

15
