[held a hearing on Avgtist 14 and 15, 2018, at the OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Mad.
Code Ann., Health Oco. § 14-405(a) (Supp. 2018); COMAR 10.32.02.04. Andrew E. Vernick,
Esquire, and Christopher J. Greaney, Esquire, and Vernick & Associates, represented the -
Respondent, who was present.at the hearing. Victoria WH. Pepper, Assistant Attorney General and
Administrative Prosecutor, and the Office of the Attomey General, represented the State of
Maryland (hereinafter referred to as the Board).

Procedure.in this case is governed by the contested case provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act, the Rules for Hearings before the Board of Physicians, and the Rules of
Procedure of the OAH. Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 through 10-226 (2014 & Supp.
2018); COMAR 10.32.02; COMAR 28.02.01. ,

1 Did the Respondent violate section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations

Article?’ Ifso, .

,

2. What sanction(s) ate appropriate?

 

SUMMARY-OF THE EVIDENCE
Exhibits

 

_Tadmitted the following exhibits into evidence at the Board’s request:

Bd. Ex, 1: Complaint Form, dated August 8, 2016, with attachments;
- Bd. Ex. 2: Complaint Form, dated September 5, 2016, with attachments;

 

‘1 conducted a prehearing conference regarding this case on July 26, 2018, The parties were represented by the
same ‘counsel identified above, On July 30, 2018, I issued-a Prehearing Conference Report (Report) in which the
issues were more specifically identified. The Report also instructed the parties to report any disagreement with “the
accuracy or completeness ofthe Report” to'ni¢ within seven days. Neither party reported any disagreement. The
issues listed in the Report idenitified the Respondent's acts that by itself or in context allegedly supported the
statutory Violation: @) paying.a patient to babysit her adult daughter's children while the daughter participated in a
video shoot by the Respondent, (ii) encouraging and’financially supporting the patient and her adult daughter to
open a hair salon, (iii) engaging in a sexual relationship and physical altercation with the adult daughter of a patient,
(iy) disclosing confidential medical information about he patient to patient’s adult daughter and talking about two
additional patients while drinking wine with a patient and her daughter in the hair salon, (v) disclosing confidential
medical informnation about a different patient to’ the adult daughter of a patient, (vi) making derogatory remarks to a

* patient about another patient's daughter, who also was a patient, and (vii) calling patients retarded in the presence of
a patient during a treatment session. Those specific allegations are addressed in this decision.

2
