physician in such a manner as to harm patients or diminish the standing of the medical profession
in the eyes of a reasonable member of the general public. Id. at 601.

Panel B finds that the rules or ethical code of the profession include the American
Psychiatric Association’s Principles of Medical Ethics with Annotations Especially Applicable to
Psychiatry, 2013 Edition (“Principles of Ethics”). The Principles of Ethics are guidelines
reflecting the ethical parameters and professional boundaries for psychiatrists.

The Principles of Ethics warn against the blurring of boundaries between psychiatrists
and their patients. The Principles of Ethics require a psychiatrist to “be ever vigilant about the
impact that his or her conduct has upon the boundaries of the doctor-patient relationship, and.
thus upon the well-being of the patient.” Principles of Ethics § 1.1. The Principles of Ethics
further state, a “psychiatrist shall not gratify his or her own needs by exploiting the patient.” Id.
The Principles of Ethics also provide that “[a] physician shall uphold the standards of
professionalism, [and] be honest in all professional interactions.” Jd. at § 2.

In Finucan, a physician was found guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine for having sexual relationships with patients. Finwcan, 380 Md. at 586. The expert in
Finucan explained why sexual relationships with patients are problematic:

First, the sexual relationships may grow out of and become entangled with the

physician-patient relationship. Second, a physician places himself or herself in the

position of being able to exploit his or her intimate knowledge of his or her
patients and their families in order to advance the physician’s sexual interests.

Third, a physician is placed in a position where he or she may lose objectivity and

place his or her own needs for gratification above the patient’s wishes or best

interests. Finally, there is a real danger that these relationships may damage the

patient in a number of ways.

Finucan, 380 Md. at 599.
