fact, he acknowledged the inappropriateness of it: “Pye, learned since this [payment of the
funeral expenses] that that was a boundary issue.”

Was the Respondent’s disclosure about patients unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine?

I have found that the Respondent discussed information derived from his treatment of
Patient 2 to Patient-1 and Person i, I have-also found that the Respondent described patients
waiting to be seen by him in treatment as retarded and easily agitated, arid he described IIL
another patient of his, to others as “retarded” and commerited he felt sorry for Patient 2.

These disclosures and comments violate the Respondent's professional duty to maintain
strict confidentiality about the treatment relationship. It is axiomatic in the profession of
psychiatry —.“because of the essentially private, highly personal, and sometimes intensely
emotional nature of the relationship established with the psychiatrist” —- that the doctor-patient
relationship be maintained in the strictest confidence to allow the patient to allow for trust in the
relationship, the linchpin of the therapeutic relationship. The Respondent's disclosures to or in.
front of others about his patients constitute unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.

Was the Respondent's sexual relationship with Person 1 unprofessional eonduct in the ¢
practice of medicine?

The Board did not contend that the Respondent’s sexual relationship with Person 1 was,
by itself, unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Board contended that the
sexual relationship’s negative impact on the therapeutic relationship between the Respondent-and
Patients 1 and 2 made it a violation of section 14-404(a)(3)Gi) of the Business Occupations

Article.

 

25 COMAR 10.32.17.02 addresses a sexual misconduct by licensed physicians. It prohibits sexual impropriety with
a “key third party,” which is “an individual who participates in the health and welfare of the patient concurrent with
the physician-patient relationship.” COMAR 10.32.17,02B(1)(a), The Board did not contend that Person 1 was a
“key third party” for either Patient 1 or Patient 2.

29
