Johnson helped to pay for the funeral of Patient 1’s son. Dr. Johnson socialized and drank wine
with Patient 1 at her hair salon, Dr. Johnson’s personal and financial entanglements with Patient
1 were intertwined with his sexual relationship with Person 1,

When Dr. Johnson became involved with the personal lives of Patient 1 and Person 1, his
psychiatric care of Patient 1 changed. Dr. Johnson’s therapy sessions with Patient 1 became
‘shorter. He told Patient 1 that he could come by the salon to prescribe her medications and that
she did not need to go into the office any more. Patient 1 felt that she could no longer be as open
in treatment with Dr. Johnson because he might tell her daughter (his girlfriend) her confidential
communications. As in Banks, where patient care was harmed because hospital staff tried to
avoid the physician, Dr. Johnson’s relationship with Person 1 had a negative impact on his
treatment of Patient 1, In short, his sexual relationship with Person 1 was intertwined with
patient care. See Cornfeld 174 Md. App. at 474; Salerian, 176 Md. App. at 253.

The ALJ correctly found that the blurring of boundaries between psychiatrists and
patients constitutes unprofessional conduct. The ALJ also correctly explained that such
boundaries are necessary to provide objective treatment and to ensure that, the physician’s needs
and interests are not part of the therapeutic decision-making. Inexplicably, however, the ALJ
found that, while payments and socialization crossed professional boundaries, Dr. Johnson’s
sexual relationship with Patient 1’s daughter was itself not a boundary violation. The ALJ
considered the sexual relationship with Person 1 only in the context of whether the relationship
was a violation of the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations. COMAR 10.32.17. ‘The Board’s
sexual misconduct regulations, however, are irrelevant to a determination of whether Dr.

Johnson is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. Dr. Johnson was not
