occurred in the stairwell between the third and fourth floors during the Respondent's office
hours.

Person 1 testified she was “very upset” when she entered the Respondent’ s office to get
money she “needed” for her daughter’s school supplies and hair styling. Shortly before her
atrival, she sent the following electronic message:to the Respondent:

I'm fed up! Every time you feel the need to ignore my. text makes me feel

like maybe being negative wouldn’t hurt fucking nothing. My mothern .
father [sic] would understand nigga you not going to play with my heart &

my livelihood. I'l kill or be Killed like I seriously on my kids [sic]. You
played with me long enough Doc fuck you and everything in your life. Pm
fucking miserable so will everybody else around you will! [sic] I need my
MF money every week! I’m sick of your bs!!!! Nobody will stop me from
fucking you up like your fucking me up! I know you've been fucking them
dirty ass whores in office & the salon. {Blitch.

Ba. Ex. 31, Tab 4.

.Person | explained the content and tone.of the message this way: “I was pissed off with
him cheating on me, secing other women in his office, disrespectful things coming out to the hair
salon about his affairs with other women.” She tried to minimize the threats and hostility as
follows: “I was just venting. I was mad, I was upset. I was hysterical, and 1 was upset with
him,”

Person 1 testified that whew she arrived at the Resporident’s office at around 2:40'p.m., he
led her to the stairwell ‘and when the door shut behind them, “he started hitting me in my face
“with a closed fist ongoing times.” According to Person 1’s testimony, the Respondent was
calling her names, kicking her in her stomach, and trying “to Kill” her by making ‘her fall
backwards down the.stairs, Person 1 testified that she ‘fought back by “grabbing” and
“scratching” the Respondent. ,

The Respondent testified that he had fifteen patients scheduled for the day of the fight.

He testified that Person ‘[’s threatening email made him angry and frightened. He testified he

17
