In her recorded interview in October 2016, Patient.1 said the salon was for her and
Person 1. Person | testified the salon was for her and Patient 1, Person 1 identified documents
that showed the Respondent’s payment for furniture and to the Department of Assessment and
Taxation for the salon. Person 1 also identified electronic messages in which thé Respondent
. admitted paying rent for the salon, Mr. Halvorson téstified that the Respondent paid rent for the
salon for “at least a year.” Accordingly, I find that, during his treatment of Patient 1, the
Respondent encouraged Patient 1 and Person 1 to open a hair salon and provided them with
regular and significant ongoing financial assistance to operate Eze.
The sexual and financial relationship with Person 1 |
Person 1 testified that the Respondent was her “boyfriend” for five years. She testified
that she and the Respondent had a sexual relationship, During the Board’s interview, Person 1
stated she that she had “sex” with the Respondent and stated they were “intimate,” starting
sometime in 2012. Person 1 testified that the Respondent frequently gave her money and paid
for expensive gifts. ‘
Patient 1 told the Board that she witnessed affection between Person 1 and the
Respondent and were-with them during bank transactions.
During his testimony, the Respondent specifically denied a sexual relationship with
Person 1. During his Board interview, the Respondent also denied a sexual relationship with
Person 1, and that he “absolutely” had no sexual relationship with any relatives of his patients.
He admitted frequently giving Person 1 money, totaling as much as $30,000.00.
The Respondent contended that he paid Person 1 large sums of money and helped with
the salon because Person | was extorting him. He claimed she threatened to ruin his marriage
and reputation in the community by falsely exposing that they weré having a sexual affair. In

regard to the hair salon, he.also explained his largess this way: “I was ‘hoping that over time it

14
