" sources.” The letter establishes Person Vs willingness to use false statements and deceit to
mislead others to unwittingly assist her to obtain something that the truth would have made
impossible. By Person 1’s unapologetic admission of deceit, I find that her credibility ©
substantially tarnished. Nonetheless, I do not conclude that her testimony is categorically
without any probative value, The probative weight, ifany, I give to Person Ps testimony about
any material fact shall be determined by a consideration of her testimony in the context of the

full relevant evidentiary: record. However, I decide here that Person 1’s testimony, alone, shall
be insufficient to support a factual finding.'®
The Respondent’s credibility

In regard to the Respondent, Thave equally strong reservations about his credibility for
the following reasons. First, the Respondent sworn statements during his interview by the. Board
on August.22, 2017, were sometimes misleading, false, or ‘incomplete. The following are
examples. When asked to discuss his-involvement in the salon, he said he encouraged Patient 1
to start a business and agreed to place advertisements about the salon in his office, refer
acquaintances to the salon, and provide her the name of someone experienced in setting up
businesses. He mentioned nothing else. When shown a document from the Department of |
Assessments and Taxation and asked why ie made payments to'that agency on behalf of the
salon, he said it “might have been given'as a gift.” When asked if he could recall paying any
other money for the salon, he stated, “I do not.” However, when again shown documentation of
a purchase his production company made for the salon in October 2015, he testified, “Those I do
recall, now that there’s, you’ve shown them to me. I did not remember them before.” Finally,

when asked questions about paying rent for the hair salon, the Respondent was disingenuous, at

 

6} have not considered Ms. Brage’s testimony ‘in this discussion because the allegations related to Person 1 *s
complaint against her has not beet adjudicated.

12
