would be enough revenue generated that the hair salon would be my way out of this.” The
Respondent provided no corroboration of any of this this testimony.
In addition, the Respondent explained that he “had never been in a situation like that

before, and I didn’t know what to do... who I could turn to for help.” He testified he-did not

" contact the police or seck advice from a colleague because he “didn’t know that that would be a
resource.” The Respondent testified, however, thathe “informally” spoke to a friend, who is an
attomey, about the extortion. The Respondent did not offer this friend as a witness to
corroborate that conversation or explain why the friend was unavailable to testify. It simply does
not make common sense that the Respondent would not offer the only witness who could support
the theory of his case, unless, of course, there was actually no friend to testify. Accordingly, for
this reasons discussed above about the Respondents credibility, and considering the above
discussion, { am not persuaded by the Respondent’s extortion theory explains his generosity
toward Person |. Rather, what makes more common sense is that his largess a function of his
sexual relationship with Person 1. |

_ The record also provides additional support for a finding that the Respondent had a

sexual relationship with Person 1 and that extortion was not the reason he gave Person la
substantial amount of money and assistance for the salon. The additional support comes from
very familiar and ostensibly affectionate electronic communications between the Respondent and
Person 1. In ime 2016, Person 1 commented that the Respondent had not talked to her about
business plans and wondered whether he-was against her. The Respondent replied that he gave
money to her-as “a gift” and: “Do not ask me again ever-if Pm-against you, You know the | :
answer is NO1AM NOT against you.” In another message, the Respondent refered Person 1 as
“Pepe” and “Sstinker [sic].” In another message, the Respondent assured Person 1 that he was

“gn a mission [sic] that supports yours.” Person 1-referred to the Respondent in a message as

15
