The Board’s enforcement powers include a broad range. of sanctions upon finding a
violation of section 14-404. In addition-to those set forth above in section 14-404(a), the Board.
may irpose’a financial penalty against an‘offending physician. Section 14-405.1 provides:.

§ 14-405.1. Penalty instead of suspension or in addition to suspension or
revocation.

(a) Imposition of penalty, — If after a hearing under § 14-405 of this subtitle
a disciplinary panel finds that there are grounds under § 14-404 of this subtitle
to suspend or revoke a license to practice medicine of osteopathy, or to reprimand
a licensed physician or osteopath, the disciplinary panel may impose a fine subject
to the Board’s regulations: . ‘ a
(1) Instead of suspending the license; or
(2) In addition to suspending or revoking the license or reprimanding the
licensee.
(b) Disposition of funds. — The Board shall pay any fines collected under this
section into the General Fund. .
Id. § 14-405.1;,see also COMAR 10.32.02.09 (addressing disciplinary sanctions and the
imposition of fines); and COMAR 10.32.02.10 (providing a chart that lists maximum and
minimum sanctions and fines for specific violations).
Preliminary Credibility Determinations"

_ The parties almost exclusively focused on the credibility of Person 1 and the Respondent
during their closing arguments. The Board argued that the Respondent’s extortion defense is not
credible for several reasons.!® First, the Board argued that the Respondent did not take any
reasonable actions in response to Person 1’s extortion plan, for example, seeking. advice and

guidance from’a trusted friend or colleague or contacting the police, Second, the Board argued.

that the affection he showed Person 1 in his electronic communications with her belie his

 

47 address the issive of the Respondent’s and Person'1's credibility at the outset of this ‘decision because both are
critical witnesses. I later address the Board's specific allegations of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine during which J comment on the credibility of Patients-1 and 2. ‘
S The Respondent denied a sexual relationship with Person 1, He testified Person | extorted him for money and
gifts by threatening to expose a madé-up sexual affair he was having with her.

10
