feared for his and his staff’s safety, and he alerted Ashley White, his secretary, to possible
trouble and instructed her to keep the door locked.” According to the Respondent, he was in the
back ‘consulting area” when Person 1 arrived. He testified he walked Person 1 out of the office
“to the stairwell,” while she was arguing and cursing him. He further explained:

I got into the stairwell and asked her to leave, and shie pushed me against

the wall of the stairwell, and I assumed a defensive posture and pushed

back against her as far as | can remember, and then Tran down the, before

that happened, she landed a few blows on tne. As I tried to defend myself

and fend [her] off by pushing with my arms raised, and J ran down the hall

to where a security company is that was in the building and knocked on the
door and asked them to help me .. :

The Respondent denied that his hands ever came in contact with Person 1’s face and
testified that her bloody, face and injuries “could only have been sustained when I was trying to
fend her off in.a defensive posture and she was lunging towards me.” He insisted he “did not hit
her.”

The Prince George’s County Police responded to the scene at 3 09 p.m, The responding
officer reported:

On 08/06/2016 at 1509 hours I... responded to....a fight. Upon my arrival

I made contact with [Person 1] and [the Respondent]. [Person 1] was screaming

and throwing her arms around in an aggtessive manner. For my safety and the

safety of citizens on the scene I placed [Person 1] into handcuffs until my back-

up arrived. [The Respondent] was.calm at the time of my arrival, [Person 1]

and [the Respondent] were checked for open warrants with negative results.

[Person 1] and [the Respondent] were advised and sent on their way.

Bd, Ex. 31, Tab 7.9

 

!° The record includes a written statement from Ms. White, which is signed and dated on August 14,2016, She
described Person 1's countenance when she walked into the office as “visibly upset.” Ms. White reported that she
heard yelling and tussling after about four minutes and when she looked outside she saw a security guard ahd Person
| in the Respondent's face pointing her finger at him, yélling at‘him, and taking a swing at him. She saw the
Respondent grabbing Person 1°s arms “and:pushing her towards the wall. trying to keep her off of him.” Bd. Ex. 31,
Tab 6. Ms. White reported that she called 911 at the Respondent’s request.

20 Person 1 and the Respondent filed criminal complaints against each other and the District Court of Maryland
entered a nollc prosequi disposition in both cases. : .

18
