I admitted the following exhibits into evidence-at the Respondent’s request:

Resp. Ex. 1: Investigative results, and thirty-two pages for information of various kinds; and
Resp. Ex. 2: Person 1’s complaint against Jo-Anne Bragg, dated June 25, 2017. ;

Testimony
The following witnesses testified for the Board:®
® Arthur Halvorson, businessman,” .
° Amanda Kate Miller, Compliance Analyst with the Board;®
e Person 1; and, |
® Patient 2.
The Respondent testified for himself, arid pioaented the following witness:

© Jo-Anne Bragg, Counselor.

 

§ On behalf of the Board, the OAH issued a subpoena to Patient 1 for her appearance and testimony, Patient 2 did.
not appear or testify at the hearing. Instead, she had provided a note to Ms. Pepper from a physician, dated August
6, 2018, who, at best, suggested her mental health condition prevented her appearance. The hearing proceeded
without Patient 1’s testimony. During Ms. Miller’s testimony, after she was first asked about her interview with
Patient 1, the Respondent objected to any testimony about that interview based on Patient 1’s failure to appear to
testify, I overruled that objection and allowed the investigator’s testimony (and the transcript of Patient 1's sworn
interview), However, it was agreed that Ms. Pepper would contact Patient 4 to inform ‘her that the subpoena
required her attendance, provide her the option to testify by telephone, and instruct her that if she refused to appear
or testify by phone, OAH would initiate enforcement of the subpoena through the judiciary. At the end of that day’s
testimony, the Respondent indicatéd he no longer wanted to pursue obtaining Patient 1’s compliance with the
subpoena. Thé Board raised no objection. .
7 Mir. Walvorson is the sole owner of limited liability companies that.own and manage properties, including
properties leased by the Respondent to opetate his medical practice.

Ms, Miller is the compliance analyst who, with another compliance arialyst, conducted interviews with Patients 1
and 2, Person 1, and the Réspéndent-during the Board’s investigation of the complaints against the Respondent. A
different compliance ‘analyst conducted the interview of Mr. Halvorson, — ’

4
