both parties had to go to the hospital for their injuries. - The ALJ found that Person 1 initiated the
stairwell fight and Dr. Johnson acted in self-defense, based on the testimony of Person | and Dr.
“Johnson as well as the police report. The ALJ also found that the altercation did not cause
Patient 1 or Patient 2 to cind their treatment with Dr. Johnson. |
After a review of the evidence related to the stairwell altercation and the ALJ’s analysis,
Panel B accepts the ALJ’s factual findings and finds insufficient evidence to sustain a finding of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine by Dr. Johnson during the incident? Panel B
does not grant the State’s exception, and has not taken the stairwell altercation into consideration
in its determination that Dr. Johnson is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine.
“CONCLUSION OF LAW
Disciplinary Panel B concludes, as a matter of law, that Dr. J ohnson is guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the
Health Occupations Article.
SANCTION
As a sanction, the ALJ recommended a six-month suspension of Dr. Johnson’s license to
practice medicine and that Dr. Johnson complete coursework in the confidentiality of psychiatric
treatment and in proper patient/psychiatrist boundaries. The State argues that Dr. Johnson’s
license be revoked. Dr. Johnson did not file any exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision but

requested in his response to the State’s exceptions that the sanction be reduced. He argues that

 

3 Panel B agrees with the State that credibility findings are due only for “demeanor-based
credibility assessments specifically,” not for “credibility assessments generally.” Elliott, 170
” Md. App. at 394. Here, the findings were not demeanor-based factual findings and, therefore,
are not entitled to any deference. See Department of Health & Mental Hygiene v. Shrieves, 100
Md. App. 283, 302 (1994). Nevertheless, in light of the evidence presented, Panel B adopts the
ALJ’s factual findings.

‘ 11
