. Additionally, the inherent inequality i in the doctor-patierit relationship may
lead to exploitation of the patient. Sexual activity with.a-current or former
patient is unethical.

2. The psychiatrist should diligently guard against exploiting information
furnished by the patient and should not use the unique position of power
afforded him/her by the psychotherapeutic situation to influence the patient in
any way not directly relevant to treatment goals.

Bd. Ex. 36,

Was the Respondent's blurring of boundaries between him and Patient 1 unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine?

Lhave found that the Réspondent provided encouragement and significant financial
support for the creation and operation of EES. the hair salon, Although the
Respondent testified that “the relationship with the hair salon as far as | was concerned was with
the daughter (Person 1) only,” he admitted he became aware that Patiént 1 was working there.
Moreover, what he told the Board directly coritracted his testimony. He told the Board that his
encouragement to open a hair salon and financial support to set it up and operate it was for
Patient 1. In addition, I have also found that the Respondent socialized with Patient 1 at the hair
salon. “Patient 1 and Person 1 both stated the socialization was frequent. J have further found that .
the Respondent paid for at least part for Patient 1's son’s funeral. He admitted this. He also paid
Patient 1 up to $250,00 to babysit Person 1’s'children:.

The principles of ethics for the psychiatric profession wari psychiatrists against the
blurring of boundaries between them and their patients: “The psychiatrist shall be ever vigilant
about the impact that his or her conduct has upon the boundaries of the doctor-patient
relationship, and thus the well-being of the patient.” This is for an obvious critical reason:
providing | treatment that advances the patient’s best interest requires the psychiatrist to be
objective so that his needs and interest do not become part of thetapeutic decision-making. The
blurring of professional boundaries in his relationship with patient 1 constituted unprofessional

conduct in the practice of medicine. The Respondent made no.legal argument to the contrary. In
28 ‘
