“Daddy.” She testified that the Respondent wanted her to call him that Another exchange of
messages included the following from the Respondent: “Quiet Pepe. Pulling the last few pieces -
together. You are a brat and a stinker. But in spite of it all you are also loved.” Person |

replied: “[H]appy to hear you have love for me. Thanks I needed to hear that.”

At the hearing, the Respondent testified that these text inessages were his way of trying
“to channel back negativity with something neutral or positive.” He explained that “Pepe” was a
reference to Pepe Le Pew, the anthropomorphic French skunk of Looney Tunes fame, and was —
meant to be “a double entendre that reflected my feelings but at the same time was neutral.”
When asked what those feelings were, he listed them as “annoyance,” “disgust,” “vulnerability,”
and “anger.” He pointed out that the phrase, “in spite of itall you ate still loved,” was. written in -
the passive voice, presumably underscoring that he had not written, that he loved Person 1.

When the Respondent was asked why he wrote “friendly text messages” to Person 1, he testified:
“Because [Person 1] was or is a person who is very volatile, and I felt like it was better dealing
with that type of person to not repay venom with venom, but try to come back in a neutral or
even friendly tone to bring her down.”

The Respondent’s alternative explanations for sending ostensibly friendly and
affectionate'text messages to someone who he claimed was extorting him for large sums of
money are not persuasive. I find that the friendly, playful, and affectionate messages discussed
above support Person 1’s testimony of a sexual relationship between she and the Respondent.
Accordingly, for all the reasons discussed above, I find that the Respondent had a sexual and
financial relationship with Person 1 during the: time he treated Patient 1.

The physical altercation between the Respondent and Person 1
Person 1 and the Respondent agreed that there was a physical fight between them on

August 6, 201 6, in the building where the Respondent’s medical practice is located. The fight

16
