when taking the medical history,” and that, “[s]imilarly, patients may feel uncomfortable
disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an intimate examination.” Finally, the opinion
states, “[e]xcept in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write prescriptions for
controlled dangerous substances for . . . family members.”

The ALJ found that the restrictions and limitations on treatment of family members was
widely understood in the profession and that Dr. Mikhail’s treatment of family members
breached an ethical code of physician practice. The Panel adopts these ALJ findings. The AMA’s
adoption and publication of its stance against physicians treating family members in ethics
opinions, the Board’s history of discipline against physicians for treating family members, and
testimony from Dr. Mikhail and the State’s expert recognizing the restrictions on treating family
members together establish that treatment of family members for long-term, non-emergency
treatment was commonly understood by licensed physicians to be unprofessional conduct.

Dr. Mikhail acted as Family Member 1’s primary care physician from 1998 until 2020.
He treated her for various conditions including psychiatric conditions and prescribed various
medications for chronic and acute conditions including one Controlled Dangerous Substance and
medications for psychiatric care. The ALJ found, and the Panel agrees, that Dr. Mikhail’s
treatment was not short-term care, emergency treatment, or care rendered because no other
providers were available. Some of the risks suggested by the AMA opinions presented
themselves here. Family Member 1 was not candid about her other conditions and treatment,
failing to tell Dr. Mikhail about concurrent treatment. Dr. Mikhail’s treatment of Family
Member 1 for her psychiatric conditions included sensitive symptoms and topics that, as the
State’s expert explained, may have caused discomfort to Family Member 1 and her conditions

therefore were not fully probed by Dr. Mikhail. He acknowledged that it was difficult to set

4
