Mikhail’s conduct occurred over a period of many years. The ALJ found, based on Dr.
Mikhail’s testimony, his cooperation with the Board’s investigation, his cessation of the
prescribing practices after the charges were issued, and his demeanor, that he is unlikely to
resume the prescribing to family members, which demonstrated rehabilitative potential.

Dr. Mikhail takes exception to the ALJ’s proposed sanction and argues that the Board
should remove the stayed suspension and decrease the $10,000 fine. Dr. Mikhail argues that a
stayed suspension would not protect the public and is needlessly punitive. Dr. Mikhail focuses
on the ALJ’s finding that Dr. Mikhail was “unlikely to resume these practices” and exhibited
“rehabilitative potential.” Dr. Mikhail noted that he had not acted for financial or nefarious
reasons and was unaware of the ethical prohibitions on treating family members. Dr. Mikhail
also argues that a stayed suspension could affect his patients, causing him to lose his board
certification and credentials with his current insurance plan. Dr. Mikhail also recounted the
mitigating factors: He has no disciplinary history, he voluntarily disclosed the violations and
cooperated in the investigation, he was not motivated by financial considerations, he had no ill
intent, and he claims he committed an unknowing violation. For the same reasons, Dr. Mikhail
also argued that the fine was excessive given the circumstances.

The State argues that Dr. Mikhail’s conduct was significant. He treated Family Member
1 for complex, chronic conditions, including prescribing CDS. The Ethics Opinions note the
inherent dangers that exist when treating family members. The State argues that it is unlikely
that he was unaware of the Board’s general prohibition against physicians treating family
members based on the Board’s warnings over the years through newsletters, and numerous
orders. Further, the State notes that false prescriptions were also written for Family Member 2 in

the name of Family Member 1, which was an intentional falsification of a medical record. The

7
