The State argues that the Respondent lacked “insight into the fact that his actions were
dishonest and fraudulent.” (State’s Closing at 10.) It points to the Respondent’s answer to a
question about whether he had caused a financial loss to the insurance company by virtue of the
Cymbalta prescriptions being billed through Es insurance, I disagree with the State’s
argument. Given the context of that particular question, it elicited a response refuting that, on
whole, the insurance company sustained an actual monetary loss because of the Respondent’s
practices. I can infer nothing further from the Respondent’s answer; he acknowledged his
actions throughout the hearing and throughout the investigation and his testimony made clear
that he now thoroughly understood that his actions were wrong. He agreed that he made a false
statement in prescribing the Eo: i ; use. He was contrite, though
explanatory, in his testimony; he now clearly understood that he had violated the ethical
standards of the profession, and expressly stated as much,
The Respondent asked that for guidance I look to the sanctions that were imposed by
Consent: Order in Board Case No. 2219-0200B, In re Peter G. Uggowitzer, M.D. In that case, a
physician prescribed CDS to himself and two family memibers and admitted that he had acted as
one family member’s primary care physician for approximately 10 years and had prescribed
CDS for that family member for “several years.” The medical records the physician maintained
: for that family member lacked the relevant diagnosis and symptoms. The physician was given a_
reprimand, placed on one year of probation, and required to pay a $1,000.00 fine, and complete
an. ethics course within six months. (Resp. Ex. 6.) The Respondent asserts that this case is much
different than In re Ralph B. Epstein, AAD., Board Case Number 2218-0269, in which the .

: physician (who practiced in obstetrics and gynecology) treated three family members dating back

nearly two decades; twice, he performed elective surgery on a family member; he prescribed a

30
