State explains that Dr. Mikhail willfully and knowingly engaged in this practice for many years.
The State recommends adopting the ALJ’s proposed decision and recommended sanction in full.

The Panel has considered the mitigating factors that apply Dr. Mikhail’s case, including
his lack of disciplinary history, his voluntary admission of the misconduct, his cooperation with
the investigation, and his rehabilitative potential COMAR § 10.32.02.09(B)(5), The Panel has
also considered the aggravating factors including, the deliberate false report, the potential for
patient harm, and the pattern of conduct for approximately twenty years of treating Family
Member | and seven years of treating Family Member 2. COMAR § 10.32.02.09(B)(6).

The Panel finds that Dr. Mikhail’s conduct was serious. Whether or not he was aware of
the ethical rule that treatment of family members was prohibited, he intentionally treated his
family members for many years. He also treated his family members differently than other
patients. He treated Family Member 1 at his home. He never kept medical records for either
Family Member 1 for the twenty-two years he treated Family Member 1 or Family Member 2 for
the seven years treating Family Member 2. He did not examine Family Member 2 and did not
consult with Family Member 2’s primary physician. His lack of knowledge regarding the ethics
of treating family members or the need to keep medical records, even for family members, is
troubling.

But more importantly, Dr. Mikhail made false representations, issuing prescriptions to
Family Member 2 in Family Member 1’s name for approximately seven years. Dr. Mikhail
prescribed to Family Member 2 by writing false prescriptions for Family Member 1 with the
intent and knowledge that Family Member 1 would fill the prescriptions and send those
prescriptions internationally, through intermediaries, to Family Member 2. Dr. Mikhail did so

willfully, and these false prescriptions are not due to a lack of training or based upon different

8
