sufficiently definite ground upon which a board may revoke a'license even in the
absence of regulations defining what constitutes “unprofessional conduct”)[,]

Finucan v. Bd. of Physicians, 380 Md. 577, 593 (2004). What constitutes “unprofessional
conduct” is “determined by the ‘common judgment’ of the profession as found by the .
professional licensing board.” Id. To this end, the applicable regulations provide that the Board
may consider the AMA’s principles of ethics. COMAR 10,32.02.16.

As of at least May 2012, the AMA established, explained, and published its stance on the

ethics of treating family members. _

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their

“smmediate families. Professional objectivity may be compromised when an
immediate family member . . . is the patient; the physician’s personal feelings
may unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment, thereby ~
interfering with the care being delivered, Physicians may fail to probe sensitive
areas when taking the medical history or may fail to perform intimate parts of the
physical examination. Similarly, patients may feel uncomfortable disclosing
sensitive information or undergoing an intimate examination when the physician
is an immediate family member. ... When treating themselves or immediate

family members, physicians may be inclined to treat problems that ate beyond
their expertise or training. If tensions develop ina physician’s professional
relationship with a family member, . . . such difficulties may be carried over into
the family member’s personal relationship with the physician.

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also
relevant when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family.
Family members may be reluctant to state their preference for another physician.
or decline a recommendation for fear of offending the physician.... Likewise,
physicians may feel obligated to provide care to immediate family members even
if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake . . . treatment of
immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings where
there is no other qualified physician available, physicians should not hesitate to
treat... family members until another physician becomes available. In addition,
while physicians should not serve as a primary or regular care provider for
immediate family members, there are situations in which routine care is
acceptable for short-term, minor problems, Except in emergencies, it is not

17
