The AMA’s adoption and publication of its stance against physicians treating family
members, the Board’s recognition of that stance, its history of discipline against physicians for
treating family members, and Dr, mi: and Dr. i: recognition of the prohibition establish
that the statutory prohibition against unprofessional conduct was commonly understood by
licensed physicians to prohibit treatment of family members, As the Court of Appeals noted in
F inucan, this was sufficient to advise licensed physicians that providing long-term, non-
emergency treatment and prescriptions to family members was unprofessional and prohibited. °
See 380 Md. at 593; see also Mesbahi vy. Bd. of Physicians, 201 Md. App. 315, 337-38 (2011)
(“A physician is likewise presumed to know the laws regulating the practice of medicine[.]”).
Whether the Respondent, himself, had actual knowledge of the AMA opinions or the ethical
_ prohibition is not relevant to whether he is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of

medicine,

2. The Respondent’s Care of ||

The Respondent acknowledged acting as a: primary care physician from
approximately 1998 to 2020; he acknowledged prescribing her Po
various other medications for chronic and acute conditions. This was not short-term. care,
emergency treatment, or care rendered only until another provider became available,!® ‘The
Respondent testified that over the years he suggested see another doctor, but that she
was not comfortable with that due to the language barrier and cultural differences and that, fora

period of time, it would have meant he had to take time off of work to drive her, as she did not

'6 In addition to prescribing psychiatric medications for a long-standing condition, the records reflect that the
eh i: — other ee care a For instance, he ordered _ of| —_—
(State Ex, 6 at
00049.) The Respondent ordered bloodwork to diagnose and treat —E eee
wescribed her medication fo Id. at 00050, 00053.) The Respondent sent ‘or screening
ie Id. at 00051.) Additionally, he performed her pre-
operative physical in November 2017 and sent her for routine lab work. (Ud. at 00052-53.)

19

   
  
