schedule I CDS repeatedly to one family member (39 times in 18 months), and in disregard of
red flags concerning the individual’s nse of the CDS; he provided treatment both inside and
outside of his area of practice; and he had been disciplined by the Board four times previously.
(State Ex. 13.) The Board revoked the physician’s license and imposed a fine of $50,000.

The Respondent’s case is nowhere near as egregious as the case of Dr. Epstein, While in
many respects it is similar to that of Dr. Uggowitzer, the Respondent here has the added
dimension of willfully falsifying a report or record in the practice of medicine, a very serious
consideration. Plainly, each disciplinary proceeding, including the case at hand, turns on a host
of facts particular to that matter.

The Respondent requests consideration of a downward departure from the sanctioning
guidelines. The balance of the mitigating factors is not so great as to warrant a downward
departure from the minimum sanctioning guidelines set out in regulation. That said, the
recommended sanction is well above the minimum guidelines and includes both a thirty-day
suspension and a $15,000.00 fine. Taking into account the evidence presented and the mitigating
and aggravating factors—including the patent willfulness with regard to the creation of a false
record, but also the demonstrated potential for rehabilitation, the lack of prior discipline, and the
clear unlikeliness of a recurrence—I find that the recommended sanction exceeds what is
necessary to protect the profession and the public and would be excessively punitive in design.

Based on the charged violations and the aggravating and mitigating factors, I find that the
evidence supports the disciplinary sanctions of a stayed suspension, provided that the
Respondent take a Board-approved course in medical recordkeeping and a separate Board-
approved course in medical ethics, both to be completed within six months of the Board’s final

decision; and that the Respondent complete a probationary period of two years, requiring

3h
