ORDERED that after five business days, Board Disciplinary Panel A will
administratively terminate the suspension. The administrative termination of suspension will be
issued through an order of the Board or Board panel; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Mikhail is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of TWO
(2) YEARS.’ During the probationary period, Dr. Mikhail shall comply with the following
probationary terms and conditions:

(1) Within SIX (6) MONTHS, Dr. Mikhail is required to take and successfully complete

wee (1) medical recordkeeping and (2) professional ethics. The following terms

(a) It is Dr. Mikhail’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the disciplinary
panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) Dr. Mikhail must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that Dr.
Mikhail has successfully completed the courses;

(c) The courses may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal;

(d) Dr. Mikhail is responsible for the cost of the courses;

(2) within ONE (1) YEAR, Dr. Mikhail shall pay a civil fine of TEN THOUSAND

(10,000) DOLLARS. The Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check

made payable to the Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217,

Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not renew or reinstate Dr. Mikhail’s license

if Dr. Mikhail fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; it is further

ORDERED that, after Dr. Mikhail has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Consent Order has passed, Dr.
Mikhail may submit to the Board a written petition for termination of probation. After

consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of the
disciplinary panel. Dr. Mikhail may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss
‘If Dr. Mikhail’s license expires while he is on probation, the probationary period and any probationary

conditions will be tolled. COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).
10
