As a result of the Board’s investigation and MPRP evaluation, on March 13, 2018, Panel
B summarily suspended Dr. Adams’s license to practice medicine.’ On April 6, 2018, Panel B
charged Dr. Adams with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md. Code Health Occ.
§14-404(a)(4) (is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent). On July 10, 2018, Dr.
Adams entered into a Consent Order with Panel B to resolve the summary suspension and the
April 6, 2018 charges.
Consent Order

In the Consent Order, Panel B concluded that Dr. Adams was professionally, physically,
or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. §14-404(a)(4). Panel B suspended Dr.

2

Adams’s medical license? Under the terms of the Consent Order, Dr. Adams agreed that her

license would remain suspended until MPRP found that she was safe to return to practice and she
fully and satisfactorily complied with several conditions, including the requirement that she
enroll in MPRP and fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules,
requirements, and recommendations.

The Consent Order also:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel B[.]

ORDERED that if the Respondent fails to comply with any term or condition of
this Consent Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms or
conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in
Maryland. The Board or Disciplinary Panel may, in addition to one or more of
the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent[.]

' A post-deprivation hearing was held on May 23, 2018 and Panel B continued the summary suspension.
> The summary suspension was terminated as moot based on the resolution of the charges and the imposition of the
suspension,
