from Patient 1 again until 2013 when she reached out to Dr. Lightfoot for help because she was
pregnant with someone else’s child and had no place to live. Dr. Lightfoot agreed to have Patient
1 move in with him during and after her pregnancy, when her parents no longer allowed her to live
at their house. The sexual relationship resumed for a short period of time, but after it ended Patient
1 and Dr. Lightfoot remained friends. Dr. Lightfoot allowed Patient | to live at his house and after
she moved out, he paid approximately $3,500 per month for Patient 1’s rent and living expenses,
including child support and car insurance, and paid over $40,000 for Patient 1’s drug treatment
rehabilitation, which continued after their sexual relationship ended, but during the time when Dr.
Lightfoot treated Patient | in the Emergency Department.

Between 2015 and 2017, after the sexual relationship ended, but during the time when Dr.
Lightfoot continued to provide financial support to Patient 1, Dr. Lightfoot treated and prescribed
medications, including CDS, to Patient 1 on seven occasions in the emergency room and
prescribed medications to Patient 1 on four occasions outside of the emergency room. Finally, in
December of 2017, Dr. Lightfoot recognized a pattern in Patient 1’s behavior where she would
come to see him in the emergency department every few months when she was in between
programs and he told Patient 1 not to come to the emergency room again when he was working.

EXCEPTIONS

The ALJ found that Dr. Lightfoot was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine when he prescribed medications, including CDS, outside of the emergency department
without keeping a medical record, and when he prescribed CDS in the emergency department on
seven occasions in the context of an emotionally and financially complex, close personal
relationship. The ALJ did not find that the actual medical care Dr. Lightfoot provided to Patient
1 in the emergency department, including the prescriptions for CDS, was unprofessional and the
ALJ did not find that Dr. Lightfoot was guilty of immoral conduct in the practice of medicine.

3
