date of this Order. After five (5) business days have passed, Dr. Lightfoot’s suspension will be
administratively terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that upon termination of the suspension, Dr. Lightfoot is placed on
PROBATION? for a minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR. During the probationary period, Dr.
Lightfoot shall comply with the following probationary terms and conditions:

qd) Dr. Lightfoot shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program

(MPRP) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, Dr. Lightfoot shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial
consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, Dr. Lightfoot shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) Dr. Lightfoot shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(d) Dr. Lightfoot shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP
to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board
to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order.
Dr. Lightfoot shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) Dr. Lightfoot shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Lightfoot’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning Dr. Lightfoot and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent,

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the public as a current provider
of medical services;

(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Lightfoot’s name or provider number by any health care
practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the state;
(5) prescribe or dispense medications; or

(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

3 If Dr. Lightfoot’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.

7
