cited in the fl 2018 Opioid Prescribing Guidelines, is not to prescribe more than fifteen
tablets of methadone but stated that the prior recommendation — and the recommendation in
place at the time he prescribed methadone for - was twenty-five pills. He noted that his
prescriptions did not exceed this recommendation,

More broadly, the Respondent explained that when fll sought methadone in the
emergency department, she was between addiction treatment programs, and that the gap between
programs could be seven to ten days — more than enough time for a patient to experience
withdrawal and overdose. He further explained that he has had professional experience with
patients who overdosed after they were unable to obtain methadone in an emergency department
setting, and that he is mindful of that experience, as well as the fact that addicts who have
stopped using for a time are particularly vulnerable to the risk of overdose. The Respondent also
testified that he did not order urinalysis for two reasons: first, he knew she would test positive for
opioids, as she had recently been in an addiction program, and second, the outcome of testing
would not alter the course of treatment.

The Respondent also explained his thinking with regard to the medications he prescribed,
noting that tramadol is a short-acting pain reliever for breakthrough pain and that he prescribed
Klonopin for anxiety because it is the safest medication in that class of drugs. As for the
Dexedrine he prescribed ‘orl a controlled dangerous substance typically taken in the morning
and. which ae: singled out as particularly unnecessary in an emergency department
setting, the Respondent testified that ll would not be able to see her prescribing psychiatrist for
the next two weeks. The Respondent noted that he did not consult with s doctors because

. they changed frequently and would have been difficult to reach in the middle of the night. He
also stated that none of the prescriptions he wrote permitted refills, as he was mindful of limiting,

the number of doses he prescribed. _

17
