Immoral Conduct

As discussed stove fA ess that he was in agreement with the Board’s

conclusion that the Respondent’s actions constitute immoral conduct. He explained it this way:

The immoral conduct was a summation of seven visits and the interview the

Board had with the. Respondent talking about supporting patients that he had

cared for. And in the totality, I felt it was immoral and a breach of

boundaries with these patients and that it would prevent them from getting

the care they needed and -prevent them from staying within the system. When

people come to a physician they expect a science-based provider who has a

specific way of treating them and while we feel we’re doing that, seeing these

visits I felt that they were getting care that they were requesting, potentially,

or care that they wanted as opposed to what should have been done.

(Trans., p. 105.) a went on to testify that “the immoral [act]... was where he talked .
about supporting a homeless woman and her son. J thought those were some of the boundary
breaches that had me concerned.” (Trans., p. 108.) .

I reviewed the transcript of the January 17, 2019 interview Mr. Garland conducted with
the Respondent. (Bd. Ex. 23.) The Respondent was asked about people to whom he has -
provided financial support, other than a He explained that he has several cousins to whom he
provides support, and that-he also provides some support for his father. He mentioned a friend
who was involved in a car accident and to whom he provides support, as well as support he
provides to another friend who had lost his job. He also stated that he provided support to a
homeless mother and her daughter (not son, as stated fii. However, when asked if
any of these individuals were ever his patients, his response was emphatic: “No, never.”

_ Mr. Garland went on in the interview to ask about whether the Respondent had provided
support to patients. The Respondent replied that he has provided Uber rides for patients when
they needed a ride home and chipped in for clothing when it was needed. He described a
homeless patient whose clothing was in shreds and said that he and one of the nurses purchased

clothing for the man.

22
