, tamed] away, a prescription for methadone could be provided for a single day or weekend,
Instead, the Respondent prescribed twelve days of methadone, well outside of the standard of
care, according to 7 | referenced i: Opioid Prescribing Guidelines from
2018, which state that when prescribing opioids, a physician should prescribe no more than
fifteen tablets except in special clinical circumstances”! The Respondent’s failure to do this was
unprofessional, according yO |

| OB addressed the Board’s charge, with which he agreed, that the Respondent
engaged in immoral conduct. . | explained that the Respondent’s failure to adequately
verify a. subjective symptoms and to provide care despite his own conflict of interest meant
that the care the Respondent provided did not serves best interests. | that it
appears Bi ven out of her way to seek care from the Respondent, bypassing hospitals that were

__ far closer to her geographically, because she knew the Respondent would provide what she asked

for, and that he would not objectively probe what course of action was most appropriate.

Additionally, according c | relationship with the Respondent may have factored

into what she was willing to disclose, which also could have compromised her treatment. In |

essence, contended the Respondent’s relationship with breached boundaries that ,

meant her care was not driven by an objective, science-based assessment of her medical needs.

i an expert in emergency medicine and addiction medicine, testified on behalf
of the Respondent. a: extensive experience specifically in treating opioid use
disorder. He also led the development of the | a 8 Opioid Prescribing Guidelines
referenced by FI He noted that he was not paid to testify on the Respondent’s behalf
and has not socialized or worked directly with the Respondent, but felt compelled to testify for
two reasons: first, because he contends that emergency medicine poses unique challenges ‘that are

21 The guidelines are in evidence as Bd. Ex. 9.

- . 14
