to establish adherence to a standard of care, but rather to provide perspective on the unique .
pressures faced by emergency department physicians and on what measures and practices are

' typical and practical. He agreed that the Respondent's conduct was suboptimal but stated that it
was not unreasonable under the circumstances. | | also noted that it is not unusual that an
individual with an opioid addiction disorder would drive a long distance to a hospital for care, as
there is significant stigma associated with drug addiction even among medical providers, and that
those struggling to overcome addiction prioritize working with a medical provider they trust. ,

The Respondent testified on his own behalf, explaining the circumstances under which he
met fll, the course of their romantic relationship and friendship, and his own motivation for
providing her with emotional and financial support. He stated that he felt she had been dealt a
short hand in life and had been shunned by her family, and that without support, she would have
died due to her drug addiction. The Respondent did not contradict the facts as alleged by the
State, and he expressed his regret for any shortcomings jn the care he provided of However,
he also provided some context for the choices he made and maintained that while he may not
have adhered to best practices, he was not aware of any specific policies or guidelines that he

’ violated. .

The Respondent explained that he has been the sole physician on duty in the emergency
department for the overnight shift for years, and that he encounters issues with drug addiction ”
nearly every night. He noted that the first time sought care in the emergency department
during his shift, he considered whether it would be more appropriate for the physician’s assistant
on duty to provide care in his place. However, because he would need to sign off on the care

_ provided regardless, he opted to provide care directly himself. He noted that when he prescribed
methadone, the dosage was only 10 mg per day, and he knew that fj had previously been
prescribed as much as 80 mg per day. He acknowledged that the current recommendation, as

16
