including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records. Dr. Lightfoot shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(f) Dr. Lightfoot’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order;

(2) Within SIX (6) MONTHS, Dr. Lightfoot is required to take and successfully

complete a course in professional boundaries. The following terms apply:

(a) It is Dr. Lightfoot’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the disciplinary
panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) The disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the internet;

(c) Dr. Lightfoot must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that he has
successfully completed the course;

(d) The course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal;

(e) Dr. Lightfoot is responsible for the cost of the course;

(3) Within ONE (1) YEAR, Dr. Lightfoot shall pay a civil fine of $10,000.00. The
Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board of
Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board will not renew
or reinstate Dr. Lightfoot’s license if Dr. Lightfoot fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; and it
is further

ORDERED that Dr. Lightfoot shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after Dr. Lightfoot has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by this Order has passed, Dr. Lightfoot
may submit to the Board a written petition for termination of probation. After consideration of the
petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel. Dr. Lightfoot
may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The

8
