did not complete any surveys, questionnaires, or other documentation for the diagnosis. ||
m-. stated that Klonopin is also a highly abused drug. With regard to the tramadol and .
gabapentin noted that these are sometimes prescribed for pain, but that a physician
should typically order laboratory testing or imaging for obj ective confirmation of subjective
symptoms and to identify the underlying cause of the pain, particularly when there is a history of
drug dependence.

The Respondent addressed the concerns raised by | | in his own testimony,
explaining (as discussed above) that at the time he prescribed methadone, the guidelines
permitted twenty-five pills, and that he did not exceed that amount. The Respondent also
explained that laboratory testing is not always practical in an emergency department setting and
that urinalysis results would not have changed the treatment. He also noted that gabapentin is
not acontrolled dangerous substance. He further explained that [J would not be able to see her
psychiatrist for a two-week period, which is why he prescribed Dexedrine for that period of time.

I note that testimony had significant shortcomings that affect the weight that
it is due on this issue. Specifically, a: limited experience in the practice of
emergency medicine. He is not board-certified in emergency medicine and has never worked
full time in an emergency department. For a number of years, he has worked only one clinical
shift per week in an emergency department. In addition, he is not certified in addiction medicine
or pain management and has relatively limited professional experience in this area.

On the other hand, I found a: testimony highly persuasive on this issue. ||
i who. has extensive experience in opioid addiction disorder and is an expert in emergency
medicirie, explained the role that harm reduction plays in the judgment of an emergency
department physician. It was his opinion thats presentation at the emergency department
was consistent with significant risk to her health and well-being, and that it was reasonable for

20
