response to the State’s exceptions, which removed the portions of subheading D that referenced
the confidential DCCR proceedings. Dr. Lightfoot requested that the Panel accept the amended
response without making any further redactions and find that the Motion to Strike is moot given
that the subject matter and content objected to in the State’s Motion to Strike has now been
removed from the Panel’s consideration. On June 5, 2020, the chair of Board Disciplinary Panel
B (“Panel B” or “the Panel”) issued an Order accepting the amended response, striking the original
response, and declaring that the State’s Motion to Strike was moot. On June 24, 2020, both parties
appeared before Panel B for an exceptions hearing.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Neither party challenged any of the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact. Panel B adopts the
ALJ’s proposed and stipulated findings of fact, numbers 1-39. See ALJ proposed decision,
attached as Exhibit 1. The findings of fact are incorporated by reference into the body of this
document as if set forth in full. The findings of fact were proven by a preponderance of the
evidence. A summary of the facts is as follows:

Dr. Lightfoot was licensed by the Board to practice medicine on July 8, 1997. At the time
of the facts in this case, Dr. Lightfoot worked at a hospital in Maryland and was typically the only
doctor on staff during overnight shifts. On seven occasions between December of 2015 and
December of 2017, Dr. Lightfoot provided treatment and prescribed medications, including
Controlled Dangerous Substances (“CDS”), to a patient (“Patient 1”)! with whom he had a close
personal and financial relationship.

Dr. Lightfoot met Patient 1 at a bar in 2009 and the two became friends and exchanged
phone numbers. Dr. Lightfoot and Patient 1 engaged in a romantic and sexual relationship and
dated for a year and a half to two years. The relationship ended and Dr. Lightfoot did not hear

' The patient is referred to as Patient | to protect the patient’s privacy.

2
