It is also uncontested that on seven occasions — December 2, 2015; March 29, 2016; April
7, 2016; July 21, 2016: November 30, 2016; April 5, 2017, and December 13, 2017 — the
Respondent prescribed controlled dangerous substances, including methadone, Dexedrine,
tramadol, and Klonopin, without disclosure of his personal and financial relationship with in
the medical records. The Respondent explained that he was not aware of any requirement or
recommendation for such disclosure, and -icnowiedged that there are some gray
zones with regard to the professional obligations associated with treating family and friends.
Had the Respondent provided such treatment on a single occasion and failed to disclose the
relationship, his conduct would be less concerning. However, in light of the seven visits over a
two-year period, with controlled dangerous substances prescribed at each of the seven visits, the
context of. the Respondent’s personal. relationship with is clearly relevant with regard to the

treatment the Respondent provided, and I am persuaded by a: expert opinion that it

should have been disclosed.

Finally, I consider whether the Respondent’s prescribing of controlled dangerous .
substances for the time periods prescribed constitutes unprofessional conduct. This includes the
five prescriptions for methadone, each of which permitted twenty-four, or twelve days’ worth, of
pills; Dexedrine, prescribed for a two-week period (two pills per day), and typically prescribed
for ADHD; and Klonopin, with twenty pills prescribed (a forty-day supply, as a dose is a half
pill), typically prescribed for anxiety; and tramadol (twelve day supply), prescribed for pain.

‘As discussed above fi opinion regarding methadone was that a prescription
should not exceed fifteen pills, or one week’s worth. He noted that the Respondent failed to
document the reason for the methadone (pain management versus addiction treatment). In
addition, he testified that Dexedrine is an amphetamine and is a highly abused drug, and that it is
usually taken’ once a day in the morning. The Respondent prescribed it around midnight, and he

19
