case law is that the physicians’ behavior in those cases was not only boundary-ctossing, but also
exploitive and damaging to patients. In addition, the Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines
“¢mmoral” as “conflicting with generally or traditionally held moral principles.” It defines
“moral” as “of or relating to principles of right and wrong in behavior.”

There is no evidence that the Resporident engaged in any exploitive behavior of any kind,
with regard iol or any other patients. wii i raised the possibility that the care the
Respondent provided could have been compromised by his desire to provide a with what she
asked for, rather than what she needed, there is no objective evidence that this, in fact, occurred,
and the Respondent was able to credibly explain why he provided the care that he did. The
patient herself never complained about the care she received, and while svaintainea
that this may be because she got whatever treatment she requested, the Respondent testified that
|| is doing well, andl herself submitted a statement expressing the same. (Resp. Ex. 4.) As
discussed above, I have concluded that while the Respondent’s actions fell short of his
professional obligations with regard to disclosure of the relationship and adequate documentation
of prescriptions, I did not find that the care itself was unprofessional or inappropriate in any way.
Accordingly, I find that the State has not shown that the Respondent’s actions were immoral.
Sanctions .

The Board has stated that it seeks to impose the disciplinary sanctions of a reprimand,

thirty-day suspension, and an eighteen-month probationary period that includes enrollment in a
remediation program approved by the Board. ‘Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. § 14-404(a) (Supp.
2019); COMAR 1032.02.09; COMAR 10:32.02.10. Under the applicable law, the Board also may

impose a fine instead of or in addition to disciplinary sanctions against a licensee who is found to

23 Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2020. http://merriam-webster.com (19 March 2020).
24 Id. . .

24
