compromised by their personal or financial relationship. Th fact is now doing well and
credits, in part, the care provided by the Respondent. He also argues that I should consider that’
the complaint against the Respondent originated not with a but with her mothet, who was
angry about a custody matter she and her daughter were involved in. In other words, the
complaint does not reflect any dissatisfaction on the part of the patient herself. Finally, the
Respondent contends that since the investigation of this matter began, he has been open, honest,
and straightforward about the nature of the relationship and the care that he provided.
Testimony .

In support of its case, the State presented the testimony of Troy Garland, a compliance
analyst with the Board, who received the complaint and investigated the matter. His
investigation included an interview with the Respondent, as well as a review of the medical
records, financial records reflecting the Respondent’s support ofl, and the Respondent’s
written response to the complaint, When Mr. Garland interviewed the Respondent, he sought
details about the care provided by the Respondent and the decisions he made in providing that
cate. For example, Mr. Garland asked the Respondent why he did not consult with i:
physicians or order a urinalysis to screen for illegal drugs before prescribing medications, The
Respondent explained that he would have provided the same care regardless of the results of
urinalysis, and chats physicians changed frequently, which would make consulting with
them difficult. Mr. Garland also confirmed that the Respondent did not disclose his relationship

. with fj to staff with whom he worked or in any medical record. Mr. Garland prepared a written
report summarizing the facts he gathered in the course of his investigation.

The State also presented the testimony of | | an expert in general medicine and
medical ethics. i stated that, at the request of the Board, he reviewed this matter,
including all medical records and the transcript of Mr. Gatland’s interview with the Respondent,

ll
