Neither party disputes nor takes exception to the ALJ’s finding that Dr. Lightfoot was
guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii). The State took exception to the ALJ’s finding that the actual care Dr. Lightfoot
provided to Patient 1 did not constitute unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The
State also took exception to the ALJ’s finding that Dr. Lightfoot was not guilty of immoral conduct
in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i).

The quality of the actual medical treatment Dr. Lightfoot provided to Patient 1 is not at
issue in this case, as Dr. Lightfoot was not charged with a standard of care violation, in violation
of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22). The Panel, therefore, does not make any findings regarding the
quality of the substantive medical care Dr. Lightfoot provided to Patient 1. Accordingly, the Panel
need not address the qualifications of the experts or the expert opinions as they relate to the
substantive medical care Dr. Lightfoot provided to Patient 1.

Rather, the Panel’s focus is on the boundary issues and compromised objectivity involved
in treating and prescribing medications, especially CDS, to a family member or close friend. Dr.
Lightfoot’s lengthy and undisputed relationship with Patient 1 included a prior sexual and romantic
relationship and ongoing financial support including paying at least $40,000.00 for Patient 1’s
drug addiction treatment and paying $3,500.00 per month for Patient 1’s living expenses. Patient
1 also lived with Dr. Lightfoot for periods of time and Dr. Lightfoot was well aware of Patient 1’s
history of drug addiction. Dr. Lightfoot did not document his relationship with Patient 1 in the
medical records nor did he inform anyone at the hospital of his relationship with Patient 1. It is
also undisputed that Dr. Lightfoot prescribed medications to Patient 1 outside of the Emergency
Department on four occasions and did not keep a medical record. Finally, on the dates when
Patient 1 presented to the emergency department where Dr. Lightfoot was working, it is undisputed
that Patient 1 drove over 40 minutes to go to the hospital where Dr. Lightfoot was working when

4
