Damean W. E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Paul R. Johnson, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

privileges, I voluntarily surrendered my privileges on August 17, 2018. The Board initiated
an investigation of my medical practice and two peer reviewers concurred in a review of
six patient records, I failed to meet the standard of quality care in three of the cases, and
that my documentation was inadequate in all six of the records. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure these allegations shall be treated as proven and that
these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(22) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care...) and (40) (fails to keep adequate medical records...).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit
this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in
any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2016), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, J understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I
ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
