Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07 E(2), a response toa show cause order must be limited
to the following issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b) Whether the crime is one involving
moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the defendant in the criminal matter; and
(d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.” Dr. Alexander does not contest that he
pled guilty to conspiracy to distribute and dispense oxycodone and alprazolam and he does not
argue that this crime is not a crime involving moral turpitude. Instead, Dr. Alexander’s response
was limited to requesting that the Board defer the suspension of his license until after the U.S.
District Court ruled on his motion to reconsider. As stated above, the U.S. District Court Judge
denied Dr. Alexander’s motion to reconsider.

Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1) requires a disciplinary panel of the Board to “order the
suspension of a license if the licensee is convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere with
respect to a crime involving moral turpitude, whether or not any appeal or other proceeding is
pending to have the conviction or plea set aside.” The Board, therefore, is required to order the
suspension of Dr. Alexander’s license even though an appeal is pending.

“The term ‘moral turpitude’ has been defined generally as importing ‘an act of baseness,
vileness or depravity in the private and’social duties which a man owes to his fellow men, or to
society in general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and duty between man
and man.”” Attorney Grievance Comm’n of Maryland v. Walman, 280 Md. 453, 459 (1977)
(quoting Braverman v. Bar Ass’n of Balt. City, 209 Md. 328, 344, cert. denied, 352 U.S. 830
(1956)). It is well established that “in the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of
its licensee, the concept of moral turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of
Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 483 (2005). The determination of moral turpitude “hinges on the

facts present in the individual case at hand.” Walman, 280 Md. at 462.
