and alprazolam and 25 counts for distribution and dispensing of oxycodone and
alprazolam.

. The United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Maryland offered Dr.
Alexander a plea agreement, wherein Dr. Alexander would agree to plead guilty to
Count One in the superseding indictment, which charged him with conspiracy to
distribute and dispense oxycodone and alprazolam, and agree to a stipulated statement
of facts.

. Dr. Alexander and his attorney agreed to the terms of the plea agreement and agreed
that the government would have been able to prove the statement of facts, attached to
the plea agreement as attachment A, had the case gone to trial. The statement of facts
was, as follows:

In or about September 2011, Defendants MICHAEL RESNICK,
' ALINA MARGULIS, and GERALD WEISBERG hired Defendant
DANIEL ALEXANDER to work as a physician at the Healthy Life
Medical Group (“Healthy Life”). During his interview, ALEXANDER
was told that Healthy Life only treated patients pharmacologically,
meaning that Healthy Life only offered prescription pills to customers and
would not offer any alternative therapies. ALEXANDER accepted the
position and was paid $150 per hour.

While working at Healthy Life ALEXANDER saw a very large
number of customers each day he worked. ALEXANDER only spent a
limited amount of time with each patient in order to see the maximum
number of patients in order to increase the profitability of the business.
ALEXANDER noticed that many of the customers were from out of state.
Between September 2011 and March 2012, ALEXANDER issued
prescriptions to 627 patients on 946 separate office visits. Of those 946
visits, the customer received a prescription for oxycodone 97% of the
time, and a prescription for alprazolam 23% of the time. ALEXANDER
knew that many of the customers presenting to Healthy Life did not have a
legitimate medical need for oxycodone. Nevertheless, ALEXANDER
issued prescriptions for oxycodone and alprazolam to Healthy Life
customers without a legitimate medical need and outside the bounds of
acceptable medical practice. In a few instances, ALEXANDER issued
prescriptions for oxycodone to customers that at the same time he
discharged from Healthy Life based on indications they were abusing
illicit drugs.

The parties stipulate that the amount of oxycodone that was
distributed without a legitimate medical need and outside the bounds of
medical practice, and that was related to this conspiracy and reasonably
attributable to Defendant ALEXANDER, was at least at least [sic] 105
grams of oxycodone, but less than 149 grams of oxycodone, which
