Trevia Hayden, MD

Harbhajan Ajrawat, MD., Chair
Disciplinary Pane! B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson, Ave., 4th Floor
Baltimore, MD 212215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Trevia Hayden, MD, License Number D53096
Case Number: 2224-0026

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.(“Health Occ.") §12-403,
| have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,
D53096, effective immediately due to my permanent medical disability. | retired permanently
from the practice of Medicine October 31, 2023. | understand that upon my surrender of my
license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice act (the
Act”), Health Occ § 14-101 et seq. And other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means
that | am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B’) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

| acknowledge that the Board received a referral from the Office of Controlled Substance
Administration (‘OCSA”) stating that | am prescribing excessively high doses of
benzodiazepines to patients, sometimes in combination with additional different high dose
benzodiazepines. The board began an investigation of these allegations. To be clear, | have
voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to submit this letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance
of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned allegations.

{ understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, | also understand that in the event |
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,Prov. §§ 4-101., and that this
Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.
