Katherine L. Ball, M.D.

a
Noy Sth , 2016

Devinder Singh, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215-2299

RE: Surrender of Medical License
License Number: D54495
Case Number: 7716-0027

Dear Dr. Singh and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

| have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D54495, effective immediately. | understand that upon
surrender of my license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual,
with or without compensation, and cannot otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”), §§ 14-101 et seq., (2014 Repl. Vol.) and
other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC document attd on
Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”)
acceptance becomes a FINAL ORDER of Disciplinary Panel A.

My decision to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
has been prompted by the Board's investigation into allegations that | violated the terms
and conditions of the December 8, 2015 Consent Order (the “Consent Order”) | entered
into with Panel A, attached as Attachment A. Specifically, | failed to comply with
Condition 1 of the Consent Order that required me to fully and satisfactorily comply with
the following condition: “Within TEN (10) DAYS of the execution of this Consent Order
the Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(*MPRP”) for evaluation and shall comply with all MPRP recommendations, referrals,
rules and requirements, including but not limited to, any treatment and further evaluation
recommended by the MPRP.” | was unwilling to sign the consent for service form
