Katherine L. Ball, M.D.

MBP Case # 7716-0027

Page 2

required for me to receive MPRP’s services because | represented to the Board that |
had financial constraints and privacy concerns relating to the program requirements.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender in lieu of Disciplinary Panel A proceeding with further
investigation and to avoid prosecution for violating the probationary conditions required
under the Consent Order in MBP Case #7716-0027. | acknowledge that the Consent
Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon
acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, | will not be required to comply with the

conditions of the Order as long as | do not have or possess a medical license in
Maryland.

If Panel A issued disciplinary charges and this case were to proceed to a
hearing, | agree that the State would be able to prove that | violated the terms and
conditions of the Consent Order by failing to enroll in MPRP. For purposes related to
medical licensure, these investigatory findings will be treated as if proven. | understand
that by executing this letter of surrender, | am waiving any right to contest any charges
that would issue from Panel A's investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which | would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that Disciplinary Panel A will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards, the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in any response to any inquiry, that | have
surrendered my license in lieu of further disciplinary action. | also understand that in the
event | apply for a license in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of
Surrender and the underlying investigative documents may be released or published by
Disciplinary Panel A to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender is considered a disciplinary action by the Board.

| affirm that on or before the date of Disciplinary Panel A’s acceptance of this
Letter of Surrender, | will provide to Board staff my original Maryland medical license
and my most recent renewal license issued by the Board. | also affirm that | will provide
access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of
the Health General article. | further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of
Surrender, my license will remain surrendered for a minimum period of three (3) years,
pursuant to Code Md. Regs. 10.32.02.06B(2)(b). In the event that | apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel A or its successor is not
required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and
the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. | understand that when
applying for reinstatement, | will approach Panel A or its successor in the same posture
as one whose license has been revoked. | also understand that if | apply for
