s4BS HE 2 1s

of medicine, Dr. Burbano may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to request
termination of the suspension. After consideration of the petition, the suspension may be
terminated through an. order of the disciplinary panel. Dr. Burbano may be required to appear
before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel
determines that it is safe: for Dr. Burbano to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension
will be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may
impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on Dr. Burbano’s return to practice,
including, but not limited to, probation and/or continuation of Dr, Burbano’s enrollment in
MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for Dr. Burbano to return to the
practice of medicine, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel
for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose
any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Burbano allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Dr. Burbano shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the
disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be
before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is
no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Burbano shall be given a show cause hearing before
a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Dr. Burbano has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr, Burbano, place Dr. Burbano on probation with appropriate

terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke Dr. Burbano’s

ages pee te
