(MBE EB + 2923

ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the May 9, 2019 Consent Order is extended
for a minimum of six months from the effective date of this Order,” During the suspension, Dr.
Burbano shall comply with the following terms and conditions of suspension:

(a) Dr. Burbano shall continue his enrollment in MPRP;

(b) Dr. Burbano shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(c) Dr. Burbano shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order, Dr.
Burbano shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(d) Dr. Burbano shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Burbano’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal
and written information concerning Dr. Burbano and to ensure that MPRP is
authorized to receive the medical records of Dr, Burbano, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.
Dr, Burbano shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) Dr. Burbano’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions

including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or

Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is

further

ORDERED that Dr. Burbano shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it
is further

ORDERED that, after Dr. Burbano has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms
and conditions of the suspension, the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Order has -

passed, and MPRP finds and notifies the Board that Dr. Burbano is safe to return to the practice

> If Dr, Burbano’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be tolled.

5
