mates ber. Bote

12. The Board also issued a subpoena to the Prescription Drug Monitoring

_ Program (“PDMP”), reviewed the Respondent’s medication profiles from various area

pharmacies, and obtained his pharmacy records and prescriptions for controlled
dangerous substances for the period beginning on January 1, 2016 until July 11, 2018.
The information obtained revealed that since 2008, in addition to medications prescribed
by his treating providers, the Respondent self-prescribed benzodiazepines on numerous
occasions, normally authorizing four refills per new prescription written. Also, the two
physicians the Respondent employed at the Practice (Physician A and Physician B,
respectively) intermittently wrote benzodiazepine prescriptions for him. Physician A
prescribed for the Respondent from approximately mid-2007 to early-2016 while |
Physician B prescribed for the Respondent from approximately mid-2012 to mid-2014.
The Respondent did not maintain a medical record while self-prescribing nor did the
Practice maintain medical records for the prescribing that practitioners there provided for
him.

13. After receiving this information, the Board, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-
402(a),? referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an
evaluation. The Program directed him to undergo a neuropsychological evaluation.

14. On or about December 5, 2018, the Board received a comprehensive

evaluation report involving the Respondent.> The evaluator stated that the Respondent’s

2 Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in
investigation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the
Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative may direct, any
physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination.

 
