12. After receiving this information, the Board, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-
402(a),° referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program’) for an
evaluation. The Program directed him to undergo a neuropsychological evaluation.

13. On or about December 5, 2018, the Board received a comprehensive
evaluation report involving the Respondent.4 The evaluator stated that the
Respondent's “current cognitive profile gives rise to significant concerns about his ability
to practice at the level expected for a physician.” The evaluator concluded that for the
reasons stated in his report, the Respondent “should not practice medicine at this time.”

14. Based on the above investigative facts, Panel A finds that the Respondent
presents a substantial likelihood of a risk of serious harm to the public health, safety and
welfare.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board
concludes that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency
action, and that pursuant to State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7),
the Respondent's license is summarily suspended.

ORDER
IT IS thus, by Panel A of the Board, hereby:
ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. § 10-

226(c)(2)(2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the

> Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or
in investigation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board
under this title, the Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its
own initiative may direct, any physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this
title to submit to an appropriate examination.

“in order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the comprehensive report will not be disclosed in this
Order, but the report will be made available to the Respondent upon request.
