9. The Board’s investigation determined that for a period of several

years, the Respondent engaged in a pattern of unprofessional conduct

that included, but was not limited to, sexual harassment of hospital staff,

both verbal and physical, sexual propositioning, and unconsented-to

physical contact of at least one patient. The Respondent’s conduct

proceeded largely unchecked over a period of time due in-part to staff

members’ perceptions that any complaints about his conduct would not

be acted upon at the organizational level.
The order for summary suspension then detailed over the next seven pages the specific alleged
facts supporting the order’s reasoning as to why the summary suspension was imperative. Based
on the order for summary suspension, it is clear that the reason the summary suspension was
imperative was because the Respondent’s long-term conduct at the Hospital was so outrageous,
so menacing and deleterious, and so outside the bounds of appropriate hospital behavior that he
persisted as a serious danger. The Panel finds this a reasonable understanding of the order of
summary suspension. And Panel B agrees with, and accepts, this reason. The ALJ may not
have agreed with it, but that does not mean that the order for summary suspension was deficient.
The ALJ erred. The State’s exception is granted.
C. Length of Time of Investigation

As to when an agency issues an order for summary suspension, if the agency chooses to
issue such an order, is left to the discretion of the agency. Mullan, 381 Md. at 168. The ALJ
inferred that the issuance of the summary suspension was an abuse of the panel’s discretion,
because the order of summary suspension was issued 10 months after the Board received the first
complaint against the Respondent. The State took exception.
An abuse of discretion is established if no reasonable person would take the same action

that was taken by the agency. See Sibly v. Doe, 227 Md. App. 645, 658 (2016). The burden of

demonstrating an abuse of discretion is on the one challenging the discretionary action taken by

23

 
