gave some reference to and that you didn’t remember it on Friday, that’s
what I’m just kind of confused about.

[THE RESPONDENT]: Yeah; no, I, it’s not that I didn’t remember it,
it’s that I couldn’t, I have to put some kind of coherent thing together,
you know, for you guys.

I have to — you want the whole truth and, you know, I, I probably
should have asked for a break or something like that, but the next thing I
know we were ending and my mind was, you know, running around all
over the place.

So, you know, [Individual 4] is not a name I used and so that threw
me off, the allegation is barbarous and untrue and threw me off.

So, yeah, this isn’t like I had forgot this person, but it is something
where if I started talking at that moment, I don’t think I could have put,
put two and two together. And I didn’t want to do that, so.

And there is one other thing, too, and that is that, that this person sent
me a picture of herself which is, let’s just say, highly suggestive and,
again, I just want to underscore the sort of consenting mutual aspect of
the relationship.

BY [BOARD COMPLIANCE ANALYST]

Q. When did she send you a suggestive picture?

A. Pretty much right before she — my best recollection is pretty much
right before she asked me for the money.

Q. And I know it’s been awhile, do you have any proof of her asking
for the money or anything like that?

A. I don’t think I have any proof of her asking for the money, but I do
have the picture that she sent.

(State’s Exhibit 20, T. 13-14.)

At the evidentiary hearing before the ALJ, Individual 4 testified. Individual 4 testified
that she had not been in a relationship with the Respondent, that she had not had sex with him,
and did not ask him for money. On cross examination, Individual 4 did state that she had had a
traumatic brain injury and thus could not be 100 percent positive of her recollections, but that she
did not have any recollection of a relationship, sex, or money discussions with the Respondent.
On cross examination, she was shown the racy photograph. Individual 4 acknowledged that the
photograph was of her but said that she did not send it to the Respondent. She testified that she
and an anesthesiologist at the Hospital sent photographs to each other. On redirect, Individual 4

was asked about how the photograph could have come into the possession of the Respondent:

15
