 

The Respondent testified that he did not slap the anesthetized patient at issue in Coniplaint
No. 2. The Respondent testified that he was annoyed at the taping that Individual 9 performed on
the patient for a framed navigational system and asked for the patient to be re-taped.'!° The
Respondent testified that he touched the patient’s buttocks, but he described the touching as part
ofa lesson on taping that he purportedly gave to the individuals working on the case:

Okay. So the contact would be at the speed and at the force of a

touch. The movement would be slow speed and if you put your

fingers in a vertical orientation, maybe you know, little kids might

do this and you know, think that it looks like a fishtail going back

and forth, my hand moved back and forth with only enough force to

move the patient’s tissue to illustrate the danger that was present

should someone rely on that for stereotactic navigation.
The Respondent did acknowledge that the other individuals watching him were shocked.
However, the Respondent testified that they were shocked, not because he slapped the patient, but
because he asked Individual 9 to take off the tape. The Respondent’s testimony on the incident
was fundamentally different from the testimony of the three people who testified for the State on
the incident (Individuals 5 and 9 and Complainant 2).

Individual 5, in a straightforward manner, testified about what she witnessed of the
incident, “He slapped her.” She testified as to how she determined it was a slap, “The sound and
the visual. It’s kind of hard to mistake a slap.” She further testified, “Made me feel extremely
uncomfortable. It honestly threw me into a state of shock when it happened, because I really didn’t
know how to respond to it at all. It had definitely been the first time I had ever encountered

something like that[.]” When asked again as to what she observed, Individual 5 testified, “I saw a

slap and heard the sound.”

'© When interviewed by Board investigators, Individual 9 stated that he re-taped the patient as he
had taped the patient the first time: “Yeah, it was exactly how I had it before.”

23
