Letter attached draft filings with the EEOC and a circuit court in Maryland. The Demand Letter
asked for five million dollars in exchange for Complainant 2 not filing actions and complaints
against the Respondent. The Respondent did not pay Complainant 2.

32. On October 4, 2018, Complainant 2 met with a person from the Hospital’s Human
Resources department and the Hospital’s perioperative director to discuss the Respondent’s
behavior.

33. In October 12, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a lawsuit in a circuit court in Maryland
against the Respondent, the Respondent’s private practice, and the Hospital, alleging sexual
harassment, assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.”

34. On October 16, 2018, Complainant 2 filed a formal complainant against the
Respondent with the Hospital’s Human Resources department.

35. As a result of the lawsuit filed in circuit court, the Hospital’s Performance
Improvement Committee appointed an Ad Hoc Committee to investigate the allegations in the
lawsuit against the Respondent. The Ad Hoc Committee interviewed the Respondent and a
number of other individuals involved in the surgical units of the Hospital. The Ad Hoc
Committee wrote that it did not consider the incident in which the Respondent slapped the
buttocks of Patient 1, because the incident “involved a patient” and thus the Ad Hoc Committee
“did not consider this incident to be within the specific scope of its investigation,” but the report
did state that the Respondent “acknowledged the incident, though he explained it by saying that
he was not happy with the way the patient was taped, removed the tape and moved the patient’s
buttocks.” The report also did not reference the incident involving Individual 4 in which the
Respondent tried to get her to touch his penis. But the report did mention that two Hospital
employees stated that the Respondent put his hands around the neck of a female staff member,

? At the time of the evidentiary hearing at OAH, the lawsuit was still ongoing.
9
