In support of his argument that the Demand Letter demonstrates Complainant 2’s lack of
credibility, the Respondent offers Maryland Rule 5-608(b), which allows for “any witness to be
examined regarding the witness’s own prior conduct that did not result in a conviction but that the
court finds probative ofa character trait of untruthfulness.”'? The Panel does not find this argument
compelling. Rule 5-608(b) relates to the scope of an examination of a witness, finding certain acts
sufficiently probative of credibility to allow a witness to be questioned about those acts.'4 The
Respondent does not allege that the ALJ prevented or curtailed his cross examination of
Complainant 2 with respect to the Demand Letter. The Panel agrees that the Demand Letter is
relevant to the questioning of Complainant 2 with respect to her credibility, because the Demand
Letter certainly could reflect on Complainant 2’s credibility. But Rule 5-608(b) does not provide
for the weight that should be given to the witness’s testimony after the witness has been examined.

The ALJ did not find that the Demand Letter undermined Complainant 2’s testimony to
any significant degree. The ALJ thoroughly considered the Demand Letter with respect to
Complainant 2’s credibility, but the ALJ mostly credited, accepted, and relied upon Complainant
2’s testimony concerning the slapping of the patient’s buttocks, the inappropriate behavior of the
Respondent when he examined her back, and the Respondent’s incessant sexual harassment of
Complainant 2. For instance, the ALJ wrote, “[h]aving weighed all the evidence, I credit

Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent regularly sexually harassed her.” The ALJ’s

'3 To be clear, Rule 5-608 is a rule of evidence for courts, while in administrative hearings the
admission of evidence is governed by Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-213.

' The Respondent also asserts that Complainant 2 “essentially admitted each and every of the
elements constituting the felonious offense of Extortion under the Criminal Law Article of the
Annotated Code of Maryland, § 3-701(b)(2).” The Respondent does not mention the elements or
facts that meet those elements. The Panel does not make a finding on whether Complainant 2
committed the criminal offense of extortion. The Demand Letter was admitted into evidence, and
the Respondent cross examined Complainant 2 about the Demand Letter.

43

 

|
|
|

 
