 

 

Complainant 2

responded by telling the Respondent, “that’s gross.” After that exchange,
Complainant 2 went over to the computer to finish her paperwork when
the Respondent approached her and put his hand in the V-neck area of
her scrub shirt and “touched the top of [her] chest in the cleavage area.”

She reported the incident to the Nursing Director and the two of them had
a meeting with the Respondent. During the meeting, Complainant 1 told
the Respondent that he was inappropriate and unprofessional and asked
him not to touch her again. Complainant | stated that during the meeting
the Respondent “just kind of blew [her] off.”

Complainant | stated that after the meeting with the Nursing Director, the
Respondent did not speak to her very much.

12.On or about December 28, 2020, Board staff conducted an interview with

Complainant 2, a nurse technologist who worked with the Respondent at the

Hospital. In her under-oath interview, Complainant 2 stated:

a. She previously worked in the O.R. with the Respondent exclusively two

days per week, and that “he just had a way of commanding the room and
making people feel incompetent.” She described the Respondent’s
conduct as “disrespectful” and “extremely degrading towards others.”

In or around 2016, she was pregnant and suffering from severe lower back
pain while she was in the O.R. with the Respondent. While she was
discussing her pain with one of her colleagues, the Respondent overheard
and interjected, offering to examine her. The Respondent took her into an
empty room and grabbed her lower back. He told her that he needed to
get a better feel, so she needed to lift her scrub shirt up. She lifted her
shirt “about midway to [her] back.” He then told her that “in order to
really see where [her] pain was coming from [she] needed to lower [her]
pants.” She described lowering her pants midway down and holding them
because she did not want to lower them all the way. The Respondent then
put his hands around her waist and used his thumbs to pinpoint on her
lower back, “he was touching [her] butt...pushing on my underwear and
that’s when he made the comments about how nice everything looked and
how he liked [her underwear].” At this point she pulled her pants up, the
Respondent started giggling, and she left the room.

6
