15.On or about March 5, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
Individual 5, a nurse who previously worked with the Respondent. In her

interview, Individual 5 stated:

a. She worked in the O.R. with the Respondent and found him to be
disrespectful, inappropriate, and unprofessional.

b. In 2017 she was present in the O.R. when the Respondent slapped the
buttocks of the anesthetized patient referenced above. She reported the
incident because “that’s not typical behavior of a surgeon.”

c. Working in the O.R. with the Respondent made her feel “impaired”
because in addition to her responsibilities to the patient she had to worry
about avoiding conversations with the Respondent, which is impossible
in a surgical area, but the Respondent’s conduct made it a very difficult
working environment.

Individual 6

16.On or about February 2, 2021, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview

with Individual 6, a technologist who previously worked with the Respondent.

In her interview, Individual 6 stated:

a. At the beginning of her time working with the Respondent she was told
by colleagues “you'll be fine” working with the Respondent because “he
just likes being around pretty women.” Individual 6 stated that she
understood that to mean that she should be “on guard” while working
with the Respondent.

b. She described the Respondent as “very touchy,” and stated that he
attempted to massage her neck on multiple occasions. The Respondent
would touch other staff members on their lower backs and would make
inappropriate comments about patients’ bodies.

c. She observed the Respondent getting “really close” and whispering to
Complainant 2. Individual 6 stated that this made her feel uncomfortable,
so she looked away and started working on her computer. After the
Respondent left the room Complainant 2 approached her and asked, “did
you see that?” Individual 6 responded that she did not because she was
looking away. Complainant 2 told Individual 6 that the Respondent “got
in [her] face,” and asked that in the future “please don’t turn around when
he gets this close to me.”
