Additionally, the Respondent’s egregious, long-term behavior was a real distraction to the
medical professionals at the Hospital, jeopardizing the health, safety, and welfare of patients in
the Hospital. The Respondent jeopardized patient care because he degraded the Hospital
environment by being a distraction from the focus that is supposed to be on the practice of
medicine, and he impaired the “teamwork approach of health care in the which requires
participation from a variety of hospital personnel in order to deliver effective patient care.”
Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59, 75 (1999). The medical
professionals working with him on neurosurgery cases in the O.R. should be entirely focused on
the medical case, and should not have to worry about protecting themselves and the patients from
the Respondent’s improper behavior. Individual 5 described the negative effect the Respondent

had:

So, you know, your focus is just making sure that the patient is going to
come out okay and it definitely --I don’t want to say it impairs you 100
percent, but you definitely are — are impaired, because you’re also
worried about how you have to avoid another conversation with a
surgeon - which is impossible to avoid when you’re working in a
surgical area like that, because you need to talk to him, you need to have
open communication, and you kind of have to forget those things
happened, and treat every day like a new day, and that’s really difficult
when you do experience things and know things that have happened.

(State’s Ex. 15 at 33.)

And when the Respondent slapped Patient 1’s buttocks while she was completely
defenseless and when he pulled Individual 4 into a room and tried to make her touch his penis,
the Respondent demonstrated a mindset so depraved that the Panel finds that, at the time the
order for summary suspension was issued, there was a strong likelihood that this type of conduct
would be repeated. The record does not show that the Respondent’s mindset, which led him to

act in the manner he did against Patient 1 and Individual 4, had been improved to any significant

19

 
