COMAR 10.32.02.16 states, “The Board and the disciplinary panels may consider the
Principles of Ethics [“Principles”] of the American Medical Association [“AMA”], but’ these
principles are not binding on the Board or the disciplinary panels.” The AMA’s Principles (as
revised in June 2001), provide:

I, A physician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical
care, with compassion and respect for human dignity and rights.

If. A physician shall uphold the standards of professionalism, be
honest in all professional interactions, and strive to report physicians
deficient in character or competence, or engaging in fraud or :
deception, to appropriate entities. , ‘

Hl. A physician shall respect the law and also recognize a

responsibility to seek changes in those requirements which are

contrary to the best interests of the patient.

IV. A physician shall respect the rights of patients, colleagues, and

other health professionals, and shall safeguard patient confidences

and privacy within the constraints of the law.

V. A physician shall continue to study, apply, and advance scientific

knowledge, maintain a commitment to medical education, make

relevant information available to patients, colleagues, and the

public, obtain consultation, and use the talents of other health

professionals when indicated.

VI. A physician shall, in the provision of appropriate patient care,

except in emergencies, be free to choose whom to serve, with whom

to associate, and the environment in which to provide medical care;

VI. A physician shall recognize a responsibility to participate in

activities contributing to the improvement of the community and the

betterment of public health.

VIIl. A physician shall, while caring for a patient, regard

responsibility to the patient as paramount.

IX. A physician shall support access to medical care for all people.

|

 

(State’s Ex. 31A, at S-530.)

The AMA’s Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs promulgates Opinions interpreting the
Principles. AMA Opinion 9.4.4 (2016) addresses “Physicians with Disruptive Behavior.” AMA
Opinion 9.4.4 provides in pertinent part:

The importance of respect among all health professionals as a means

of ensuring good patient care is foundational to ethics. Physicians
have a responsibility to address situations in which individual

21
