by the Respondent, particularly where the two witnesses in question were available and testified
for the Respondent at the adjudicatory hearing.” The ALJ ruled there was no due process violation.
The ALJ did not err. The exception is denied.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The Respondent’s actions and comments, which resulted in Panel B’s findings and

conclusions, set forth above, that he is guilty of unprofessional and/or immoral conduct in the
practice of medicine, were unbecoming of a physician in good standing in the profession, see
Finucan, 380 Md. at 593, and breached the ethical code of his profession. See id His
unprofessional conduct was disruptive in the Hospital and potentially negatively affected patient
care, in violation of AMA Opinions 9.4.4 and 9.045. The ALJ found that the Respondent’s
unprofessional conduct was a distraction in the OR. The Panel accepts this ALJ finding. Individual
5, an OR nurse, when she was interviewed, testified about how the Respondent’s behavior affected
work:

.... E don’t want to say it impairs you 100 percent, but you definitely

are — are impaired, because you’re also worried about how you have

to avoid either conversation with a surgeon -- which is impossible

to avoid when you’re working in a surgical area like that, because

you need to talk to him, you need to have open communication, and

you kind of have to forget those things that happened, and treat every

day like a new day, and that’s really difficult when you do

experience things and know things that have happened.

When Individual 11 asked whether the Respondent tickling her in the OR was distracting,

Individual 11 answered, “Yes.” When Individual 9 was asked whether the Respondent’s touching
of female staff interfered with work in the OR, Individual 9 answered, “Yes.” Individual 9

explained, “The nurse and the tech were pre-occupied and they would always be thinking about

what was going to happen.” The Respondent’s behavior distracted the Hospital’s medical staff

47
