lawsuit, which could diminish her credibility. The Panel also understands that the Demand
Letter offered a deal that in exchange for $5,000,000 Complainant 2 would not file the lawsuit or
report the Respondent to various entities and agencies with jurisdiction over the Respondent,
which could indicate that Complainant 2 places a large sum of money for herself above her
interest in protecting others, which could also diminish her credibility. But the analysis does not
stop there. The Panel also must look at other indicators that weigh on her credibility, such as
whether her testimony is corroborated by, or conflicts with, the testimony and statements of
others. Complainant 2’s testimony was extensively corroborated by other witnesses. For
instance, Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent slapped an anesthetized patient’s
buttocks was corroborated by Individuals 5 and 9; Individual 3 corroborated Complainant 2’s
testimony that the Respondent made demeaning sexual comments to Complainant 2, such as
saying to Complainant 2, “I’d like to put you over my knee and spank you, spank you, spank
you”; and Individual 6 alleged that the Respondent tried to massage her [Individual 6’s] neck,
like Complainant 2 testified that the Respondent massaged her [Complainant 2’s] neck.
Considering the extent to which Complainant 2’s testimony was corroborated, the Demand Letter
does not undermine Complainant 2’s testimony to any significant degree.

The Respondent also argues that the Board initially did not interview the Hospital’s
perioperative director, because, “from the investigator’s perspective, the investigator knew or had
reason to believe that the account provided by the witness was already known.” (Resp.’s
Exceptions at 8.) During the investigation, Respondent’s counsel asked the Board to interview
the perioperative director. (Resp.’s Ex. 6.) Board staff then interviewed the perioperative

director. Neither party, however, offered the interview transcript into evidence or subpoenaed the

28
