material, such as the Demand Letter, from the disciplinary panel because the material was, or
would have been, “inconsistent with their theory of the case.”

The first question is whether the Respondent possessed due process rights prior to the
issuance of the order for summary suspension. The Respondent argues, “cross examination and
the ability to present evidence was not afforded to the Respondent.” The Respondent quotes
Travers v. Baltimore Police Dep't: “a ‘basic tenet of fairness in administrative adjudications is
the requirement of an opportunity for reasonable cross-examination.’” 115 Md. App. 395, 417
(1997). Travers’ guidance on cross-examination, however, pertained to the evidentiary hearing,
not to the investigation stage. The appellant in Travers argued that the admission of hearsay
evidence during the evidentiary hearing violated his due process right to cross examination. But
the Travers court ruled that the right to cross examine was not violated, because the appellant
had the opportunity to subpoena the witnesses to testify at the evidentiary hearing but did not do
so. Jd. at 418. Moreover, in Rosov v. Maryland Bd. of Dental Exam’rs, 163 Md. App. 98, 115
(2005), the court explained that there is “‘no requirement, either in law or investigative
technique, that compels an investigative agency, prior to charging, to include the investigation

0

target or counsel in the interview process.”” Travers does not convince the Panel that the right
to cross examine applies during an agency’s investigation prior to the issuance of the order for
summary suspension.

It may be the case that the Respondent’s due process rights could have been violated if
the Board’s actions during the investigation and prior to the issuance of the order for summary
suspension compromised the evidentiary hearing to such an extent that the Respondent was

deprived of a fair evidentiary hearing. It does not appear to the Panel that the Respondent made

such an argument, but, even if he had, the Panel does not find that the Board staff’s actions

26
