 

 

 

B. Investigation — Witness Statements

The Respondent argues that “the investigative process was further irreparably corrupted in
the manner through which the Board obtained witness statements.” The basis for the Respondent’s
exception is his allegation that the interviews conducted by the Board’s investigators were “rife
with leading and suggestive questions.” The Respondent does not provide any legal authority to
support this exception. The Panel does not find that leading and suggestive questions by the Board
investigators is a due process violation. The exception is denied. —

The Respondent further asserts in his exceptions that the ALJ erred by not finding a due
process violation for the Board staff declining “Respondent’s request that it interview [the
Hospital’s charge nurse] . . . and that repeated attempts to request a full investigation, only after
charges were filed did the Board seek to interview [the Hospital’s director of perioperative
services], another critical witness.” The Respondent does not provide any relevant legal authority
indicating that the Board staff’s actions constitute a due process violation, nor does the Respondent
explain how these investigative decisions amount to a due process violation. It should also be
noted that both [the charge nurse and perioperative director] were called as witnesses by the
Respondent and testified before the ALJ. The ALJ found “[t]here was nothing so substantially
exculpatory about the testimony of either [the charge nurse or the perioperative director] that would
have made it fundamentally unfair, rising to the level of a due process violation, for the Board not
to have interviewed them before it approved the charges.” The ALJ relied upon language in Rosov
v. Maryland Board of Dental Examiners, 163 Md. App. 98, 115 (2005), stating that the court knows
of “no requirement, either in law or investigative technique, that compels an investigative agency,
prior to charging, to include the investigation target or counsel in the interview process.” The ALJ

then explained, “[i]t follows that the Board was not required to interview each person suggested

46
