 

the ALJ. The ALJ noted that the Respondent used the Demand Letter to “strongly” cross-examine
Complainant 2. The ALJ concluded, “[wJhile not endorsing the letter’s omission from the
investigator’s index, I conclude that the Board’s handling of the letter (of which the Board had
actual knowledge) in its investigative phase did not violate the Respondent’s right to due process
or otherwise taint the proceeding.”

On exceptions, the Respondent argues that the ALJ erred in finding no due process
violation. According to the Respondent, the Demand Letter was essential to judge Complainant
2’s credibility and thus essential to judging her allegations against the Respondent. Even more,
the Respondent argues that Complainant 2 “solicited and marshalled a legion of her friends and
associates to come forward in an effort to further malign the Respondent.” Taking all this together,
the Respondent argues that the entire process was affected to such an extent that the Respondent
was denied a “fair and just hearing.”

Panel B, however, is not persuaded that any deficiency in the charging process with respect
to the Demand Letter caused a defect in the evidentiary hearing, and the Panel certainly does not
find that any deficiency in the charging process with respect to the Demand Letter affected the
evidentiary hearing to such an extent that the Respondent was denied a “fair and just” evidentiary
hearing. The Respondent offered the Demand Letter into evidence at the hearing before the ALJ,
and it was admitted into evidence. And, as the ALJ noted, the Demand Letter was “strongly” used
to cross-examine Complainant 2. .

The Respondent also asserts in his exceptions that

[i]fa prosecutor denied a defendant evidence of an extortion demand
made by a witness, let alone a complainant, it is clear that a court of
competent jurisdiction would not summarily dismiss claims about

due process violation, as the ALJ in the instant case has done. To
the contrary, the court would almost certainly agree with the

41

 
