Respondent that the actions ran afoul of the due process protections
afforded him under the Constitution.

There is, however, no allegation that Board staff failed to disclose the Demand Letter to the
Respondent, as the Respondent was in possession of the Demand Letter before the Board staff had
it.

In response to the Respondent’s argument that the Board staff purposefully withheld the
Demand Letter from the disciplinary panel that voted for charges, the ALI relied, by analogy, upon
United States v. Williams, 504 U.S. 36 (1992), and summarized the ruling, stating that a “federal
court may not dismiss an otherwise valid indictment because the Government failed to disclose to
the grand jury substantial exculpatory evidence in its possession; the exculpatory evidence can be
presented at trial.” The Supreme Court ruled that the grand jury had no obligation to consider all
“substantial exculpatory” evidence and that the prosecutor had no obligation to present it.
Williams, 504 U.S. at 53. Likewise, in Clark v. State, 140 Md. App. 540 (2001), the prosecutor
allowed an expert witness to testify to the grand jury that blood recovered in the victim’s bedroom
could have come from the defendant, when the prosecutor knew of another DNA test that excluded
the defendant. The prosecutor did not present the negative test result to the grand jury. Relying
upon Williams, the Court of Special Appeals did not dismiss the indictment. Clark, 140 Md. App.
at.557-63. With all that said, it is not apparent that a court would find a due process violation if
the circumstances alleged by the Respondent here occurred in a criminal proceeding. The
Respondent was interviewed twice by Board investigators, and, each time, the Respondent
discussed the Demand Letter. A Board investigator testified that she inadvertently omitted the
Demand Letter from the investigative index and thus it was not produced for the panel when voting

for charges. The Panel accepts that the omission was inadvertent.

42
