the agency. See State v. Brown, 355 Md. 89, 98 (1999). The ALJ’s analysis for finding an
inference of an abuse of discretion was as follows:
The length of delay here, from the first complaint filed with the Board

on August 30, 2020, to the date of suspension, July 2, 2021, was ten

months. While there is no allegation that the Respondent in any way

contributed to this delay, the COVID-19 pandemic certainly must have.

Nevertheless, the Board was able to interview witnesses and meet

remotely, giving rise to the inference that suspending summarily based

on an allegation that it was imperatively required was an abuse of the

Board’s discretion.
(PD at 12.) Essentially, the ALJ established a 10-month deadline for the issuance of an order for
summary suspension after an agency receives a complaint against a licensee, indicating that the
ALJ believed that a 10-month investigation is just too long. The ALJ erred.

The ALJ’s creation of a 10-month deadline was without regard to the circumstances of
the case and the investigation needed. The ALJ’s analysis is devoid of any facts or information
about the investigation, other than it took 10 months to issue the order for summary suspension
from the date of the first complaint. The ALJ did not consider the nature or complexity of the
investigation or the amount of material involved or any of the numerous reasons that might
explain the investigation period (other than the investigation taking place during the COVID-19
pandemic).* The ALJ also did not consider whether the Respondent was prejudiced by the
length of the investigation, in contravention of the caselaw set forth in Mullan. 381 Md. at 169.
As articulated by the Court of Appeals, there simply has to be more than just the length of the
investigation to support the finding that the issuance of the order for summary suspension was
arbitrary or capricious. Mullan, 381 Md. At 170 (quoting State v. Chavis, 261 S.C. 408, 200
4 The ALJ also calculated the 10-month period from the date the Board received the first
complaint. But there were three complaints that the Board received later. Two were received
three months after the first complaint and another was received four months after the first

complaint. It does not make sense to the Pane! to impose a 10-month deadline and not factor in
the Board receiving three more complaints months after receiving the first complaint.

24
