at least more clear, in her answers concerning the Demand Letter, but Panel B finds Complainant
2 credible and finds that the Demand Letter and testimony with respect to the Demand Letter does
not diminish her credibility to any significant degree.

The Demand Letter does not reflect positively on Complainant 2 in that it indicates her
willingness to place her own financial interest before protecting the patients and employees of the
Hospital from the Respondent’s misconduct. The Demand Letter could also indicate a bias on
Complainant 2's part based upon the financial interest she has in her lawsuit against the
Respondent. But, after considering these factors, in general, the Panel finds her testimony credible
and reliable. The Demand Letter is based upon her allegations that she suffered from the
Respondent’s sexual harassment toward her. The Demand Letter appears consistent with her
testimony concerning the substance of the Respondent’s unprofessional behavior.

In any event, in terms of her truthfulness, the Panel finds that the corroboration of
Complainant 2’s testimony by other witnesses far outweighs any character flaws and bias of
Complainant 2 that the Panel infers from the Demand Letter, For instance, Complainant 2’s
testimony concerning the Respondent’s statement to her that he wanted to spank her was
corroborated by Individual 3. Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent grabbed her hair
bun and used it to jerk her head around was corroborated by Individual 8. Complainant 2’s
testimony concerning the Respondent’s routine, unwanted touching of her was corroborated by
Individual 9. And Complainant 2’s testimony that the Respondent slapped the buttocks of the
anesthetized patient was corroborated by Individuals 5 and 9.

The Panel finds that the ALJ correctly found no due process violation concerning the
Demand Letter, and there is no conduct of the Board staff related to the Demand Letter that entitles

the Respondent to any relief. The exception is denied.

45

:

|
'

 
