 

(2) “Practice medicine” includes doing, undertaking, professing
to do, and attempting any of the following: :

(i) Diagnosing, healing, treating, preventing, prescribing -
for, or removing any physical, mental, or emotional ailment of an
individual:

1. By physical, mental, emotional, or other process that
is exercised or invoked by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or .

The scope of “in the practice of medicine,” in the context of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3),
was broadened in Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59 (1999), where the
court rejected Dr. Banks’ argument that his sexual harassment of co-workers in a hospital was not
“in the practice of medicine.” While Dr. Banks’ misconduct did not occur simultaneously with
him performing a medical procedure on any patient and did involve non-direct care employees of
the hospital, the court ruled that his behavior was “sufficiently intertwined with patient care to
constitute misconduct in the practice of medicine.” Jd. at 76-77.

In Shirazi v. Maryland State Board of Physicians, 199 Md. App. 469 (2011), without
medical purpose and without the patients’ consents, the physician placed his fingers inside the
vaginas of four patients and, in two cases, smelled his fingers immediately afterward. The Board
found the physician guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine and
revoked his license. The Court of Special Appeals affirmed the Board’s decision.

In Finucan v. Board of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577 (2004), the court
affirmed the Board’s decision to revoke Dr. Finucan’s medical license for unprofessional or
immoral conduct in the practice of medicine for having consensual sexual relationships with three
patients he was actively treating. The court found that unprofessional conduct or immoral conduct

refers to “‘conduct which breaches the rules or ethical code of a profession, or conduct which is

unbecoming a member in good standing of a profession.’” Jd. at 593.

20
