becomes available, In addition, while physicians should not serve as a
primary or regular care provider for immediate family members, there are
situations in which routine care is acceptable for short-term, minor problems.
Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write
prescriptions for controlled substances for themselves or immediate family
members,

Opinion 1.2.1 (2016) — Treating Self or Family

When the patient is an immediate family member, the physician’s personal
feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment. Or
the physician may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical
history or to perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Physicians
may feel obligated to provide care for family members despite feeling
uncomfortable doing so, They may also be inclined to treat problems that
are beyond their expertise or training.

Similarly, patients may feel uncomfortable receiving care from a family
member, A patient may be reluctant to disclose sensitive information or
undergo an intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family
member. This discomfort may particularly be the case when the patient is a
minor child, who may not feel free to refuse care from a parent.

In general, physicians should not treat themselves or members of their own
families, However, it may be acceptable to do so in limited circumstances:

(a) In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no
other qualified physician available. In such situations,
physicians should not hesitate to treat themselves or family
members until another physician becomes available.

(b) For short-term, minor problems.

When treating self or family members, physicians have a further
responsibility to:

(c) Document treatment or care provided and convey relevant
information to the patient’s primary care physician.

(d) Recognize that if tensions develop in the professional
relationship with a family member, perhaps as a result of a
negative medical outcome, such difficulties may be carried
