Lelin Chao. M.D.

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Lelin Chao, M.D.
License Number: D57006
Case Number: 2221-0035A

Dear Dr, Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §14-403
(2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland, License Number D57006, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not practice medicine, with or without compensation, in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-
101 e¢ seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, [ understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as
an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

1 understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on August 6,
2021, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (Is
guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine) and Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(38)
(By corrupt means, threats, or force, hinders, prevents, or otherwise delays any person from
making information available to the Board or a disciplinary panel in furtherance of any
investigation of the Board or a disciplinary panel). Panel A alleged that 1 inappropriately treated a
family member with Controlled Dangerous Substances and that I pressured the family member to
withdraw the complaint. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation
and prosecution of these disciplinary charges. I acknowledge that the allegations in the Charges
are treated as proven,

I wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges. |
do not wish to contest these allegations. 1 understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I
am waiving my right to contest the charging document in a formal hearing at which I would have
had the right to counsel and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law.

1 understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I
