Mark Olszyk, M.D., and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Lelin Chao, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq.
(2019), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that | will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. | also agree to surrender my
Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

1 further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license in
Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event
that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms
and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of
the integrity and reputation of the profession. | further understand that if | file a petition for
reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual
whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender, I consulted with and was
represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my license to practice medicine
in Maryland. | understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of
this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

Lelin Chao, M.D.
8/16/2022 | 2:52 PM EDT
