On April 17, 2007, at a U.S. Post Office in Fulton, Maryland, the
Defendant submitted a passport application on behalf of “Minor Child
1.” Jn this application, the Defendant falsely stated under penalty of
perjury that he was a citizen of the United States, and that he was born in
Hillsborough, North Carolina. On the form, the Defendant checked the
box for “YES” in response to a question on the form asking whether he
was a United States citizen.

On April 22, 2008, at a U.S. Post Office in Columbia, Maryland, the
Defendant submitted an application seeking a United States passport for
himself. In this application, the Defendant falsely stated under penalty
of perjury that he was a citizen or non-citizen national of the United
States, and that he was born in North Carolina. He also falsely stated in
the application that his parents were both born in North Carolina and his
wife, R.A.A., was born in South Carolina.

In support of his April 22, 2008, application for a U.S. passport, the
Defendant provided an affidavit from “B.Y.R.,” sworn under penalty of
perjury, falsely stating that the Defendant was born in Hillsborough,
North Carolina. The affidavit falsely stated that B.Y.R. was friends with
the Defendant’s parents in North Carolina and they were one of the first
people to see the Defendant after his birth, The affidavit also falsely
stated that B.Y.R. was present at a subsequent naming and baptism
ceremony for the Defendant at a Hillsborough, North Carolina church.

On April 29, 2008, the Defendant was issued a United States passport
including the false information that he was a citizen of the United States
born in North Carolina. The Defendant used his fraudulently obtained
United States passport for international travel on several occasions.

On September 16, 2009, at a U.S. Post Office in Fulton, Maryland,
the Defendant submitted a passport application on behalf of “Minor
Child 2.” Minor Child 2 was born in the United States, and as a citizen
is entitled to a U.S. passport regardless of the Defendant’s birthplace or
citizenship. In this application, the Defendant falsely stated under
penalty of perjury that he was a citizen of the United States, and that he
was born in Hillsborough, North Carolina. On the form, the Defendant
checked the box for “YES” in response to a question on the form asking
whether he was a United States citizen.

On April 22, 2010, in Fulton, Maryland, the Defendant was
interviewed by officials from the Department of State. During the
interview, he falsely stated that he was a citizen born in North Carolina.

On July 31, 2012, in Fulton, Maryland, the Defendant submitted an
application for a United States Passport renewal on behalf of “Minor
