Child 1.” In this application, the Defendant falsely stated under penalty
of perjury that he was a citizen of the United States, and that he was born
in Hillsborough, North Carolina. On the form, the Defendant checked
the box for “YES” in response to a question on the form asking whether
he was a United States citizen.

On February 20, 2018, in Fulton, Maryland, the Defendant submitted
an application to renew the United States passport previously issued to
him. In this application, the Defendant falsely stated under penalty of
perjury that he was a citizen or non-citizen national of the United States,
and that he was born in North Carolina.

On June 12, 2018, in Washington, District of Columbia, the
Defendant falsely stated to Department of State officials that he was born
at home in Hillsborough, North Carolina and moved to Ghana when he
was approximately one year old. He also falsely stated that he never
applied for any immigration benefit with United States immigration
authorities and that he never submitted any documents in an attempt to
become a naturalized citizen.

On May 8, 2019, law enforcement officers executed a search warrant
at the Defendant’s residence in Howard County, Maryland. During the
search, investigators located the Ghanaian passport that the Defendant
obtained in 2006 and plans for the three-bedroom home the Defendant
purchased in Accra, Ghana in August 2012. Investigators also obtained
a number of documents related to the [D]efendant’s ongoing efforts to
fraudulently obtain documentation establishing that he was a U.S. citizen
born in North Carolina, including: a false affidavit purporting to be
sworn by Defendant’s mother—claiming that he was born in North
Carolina; a Defendant at his birth in North Carolina; a falsified baptism
certificate purporting to be from a North Carolina church—certifying
that the [D]efendant was born in North Carolina; and several draft
petitions to the Circuit Court for Howard County seeking to fraudulently
establish the fact of his birth in North Carolina.

Dr. Baako signed the Stipulation of Facts.

4. On July 31, 2019, Dr. Baako pleaded guilty to Count 4, Passport Fraud, 18 U.S.C. §
1542.

5. On September 27, 2019, for his violation of Count 4 of the Indictment, the U.S.
District Court sentenced Dr. Baako to 15 months of incarceration followed by three years

> Count four of the indictment, the count to which Dr. Baako pleaded guilty, concerns his February 20, 2018,

application on which Dr. Baako knowingly, willfully, and falsely stated that he was a U.S. citizen born in North
Carolina,
