license if the licensee is convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere
with respect to a crime involving moral turpitude, whether or not any
appeal or other proceeding is pending to have the conviction or plea set
aside.

(2) After completion of the appellate process if the conviction has not been
reversed or the plea has not been set aside with respect to a crime
involving moral turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation
of a license on the certification by the Office of the Attorney General.

Md. Code Ann., Health Occupations Article (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(b) (2021 Repl. Vol.).
Attached to the Petition were a certified copy of the indictment, the plea agreement that included
a stipulation of facts, certified copies of docket entries, transcript of the hearing for guilty plea,
judgment, and transcript of the sentencing hearing.

On July 20, 2022, Dr. Baako, through his counsel, filed a response to the Petition and

show cause order. Dr. Baako contended that 18 U.S.C. § 1542 is not a crime of moral turpitude,
arguing it does not involve fraud.
Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Board Disciplinary Panel
B (“Panel B” or “the “Panel’”) issues this Final Decision and Order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1).
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:

1. Michael N. Baako, M.D., was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on March 13, 2001, under license number D57216. Dr. Baako
continuously had his license renewed. The expiration date stated on his most recently
renewed license is September 30, 2022.

2. On May 1, 2019, in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Case
Number 1:19-cr-00224-DKC-1, Dr. Baako was charged with eight criminal counts,
including four counts of Passport Fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1542 (first paragraph) '; one

' The relevant portion of the statute provides, in pertinent part, that a person may be criminally sentenced for the
following:

Whoever willfully and knowingly makes any false statement in an application for
passport under the authority of the United States, either for his own use or the use of
another, contrary to the law regulating the issuance of passports or the rules prescribed
pursuant to such laws.
