application, [Defendant] supplied a number of forms, photographs, and
supporting materials, accurately stating his date and place of birth, and
that he graduated from medical school in Ghana.

On March 13, 2001, the Maryland Department of Health and Mental
Hygiene granted [Defendant] a license to practice medicine in Maryland.

Beginning in at least 2001, [Defendant] and R.A.A. resided together
in Howard County, Maryland, and were the parents of two minor, United
States citizen children.

The Petition for the Defendant to be Granted U.S. Citizenship is
Denied

On March 11, 1998, the Defendant and “D.R.T.,” a United States
citizen, were married in Virginia.

On March 31, 1998, “D.R.T.” filed a petition for the Defendant to be
naturalized and become a United States citizen. The petition accurately
listed the Defendant’s date and place of birth.

On October 28, 1999, the Defendant made a sworn statement to
immigration officials stating in part that he was born in Ghana and was
not a United States citizen.

On June 20, 2000, immigration officials denied “D.R.T.” and the
Defendant’s petition for the Defendant to become a naturalized U.S.
citizen, after concluding that his marriage to “D.R.T.” was a “sham”

marriage entered into for the sole purpose of obtaining immigration
benefits.

The Defendant Petitions for a Passport for his Child and a Visa as
an Alien from Ghana

On April 2, 2002, a a Columbia, Maryland, U.S. Post Office, the
Defendant and R.A.A. submitted an application for a United States
passport on behalf of “Minor Child 1.” Minor Child 1 was born in the
United States, and as a citizen is entitled to a U.S. passport regardless of
the Defendant’s birthplace or citizenship. On the form, the Defendant
listed his place of birth as Ghana and checked the box for “NO” in

response to a question on the form asking whether he was a United
States citizen.

On March 31, 2004, the Defendant and R.A.A. submitted United
States “Diversity Visa” applications as Ghanaian nationals, including
photographs and birthdates. On July 14, 2005, the Defendant and
