count of false claim to U.S. citizenship, 18 U.S.C. § 911; and three counts of illegal
voting by an alien, 18 U.S.C. § 611. On July 31, 2019, Dr. Baako pled guilty to one
count (Count Four)’, passport fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1542 (first paragraph).

3. On July 31, 2019, Dr. Baako entered into a plea agreement, which contains a
Stipulation of Facts that formed the basis of the guilty plea, which states the
following:

The undersigned parties stipulate and agree that if this case had
proceeded to trial, this Office [United States Attorney’s Office for the
District of Maryland] would have proven the following facts beyond a
reasonable doubt. The undersigned parties also stipulate and agree that
the following facts do not encompass all of the evidence that would have
been presented had this matter proceeded to trial.

The Defendant [Michael N. Baako, M.D.] is an alien born in May,
1969, in Kwanyako, Ghana to Anothony Baako and Paulina Eduah, both
Ghanian nations. The Defendant is a national of Ghana and knows that
he is not, nor has ever been, a citizen or national of the United States.

The Defendant is a physician who has practiced medicine in
Maryland hospitals. He has also maintained his own clinic under the
name Biazo Healthcare.

The Defendant Enters Into the United States and is Licensed as a
Foreign Medical Graduate

 

On October 24, 1988, the Defendant obtained a Ghanian passport in
Accra, Ghana, as a Ghanian national.

On October 28, 1995, the Defendant and R.A.A, were married in
Kumasi, Ghana. On December 5, 1995, [Defendant] and R.A.A. applied
for nonimmigrant B1/B2 visas to allow them to visit the United States.
[Defendant’s] application accurately listed his date and place of birth.
[Defendant’s] visa was issued to him at the United States Embassy in
Accra, Ghana for use with his Ghanaian passport.

On at least two occasions in 1996, [Defendant] used his Ghanaian
passport to enter the United States. On October 4, 1996, the Defendant
was issued a new Ghanaian passport.

Beginning in 1996, [Defendant] applied for certification of his
Ghanaian medical education in the United States through the Educational
Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates. In conjunction with this

? Count four of the indictment charged that Dr. Baako willfully, knowingly, and falsely stated that he was a United
States citizen born in North Carolina on February 20, 2018, on his DS-82 application for passport renewal.

3
