MSP officers found the Respondent upstairs in a makeshift laboratory area of the
residence. MSP officers searched the Respondent and found an unlabeled pill bottle in her
pocket that contained a variety of Schedule II opioid-containing pills (32 oxycodone pills, 35
morphine pills, 6 Hysingla pills, 9 hydromorphone pills, 6 Nucynta pills), and a prescription-only
medication (4 Vyvanse pills).

The MSP search found two marijuana growing operations in the Respondent’s master
bedroom on the first floor. The main growing operation was located in the open area of the
bedroom and was housed in a tent-style structure. It was equipped with a watering source, grow
lights and fans, with three healthy, two-to-three foot tall marijuana plants growing in buckets.
The other growing operation was found in the bedroom closet. It was equipped with grow lights,
fans and a watering system, and contained six marijuana plants. Next to the bed in the master
bedroom were seven additional marijuana plants, all of which were less than one inch tall. These
plants were growing in an herbal starter kit equipped with lighting and a watering system. Police
also recovered a notebook containing what appeared to be marijuana growing notes and eight
ziplock packets of suspected marijuana seeds from the bedroom.

Police searched the exterior of the Respondent’s residence and found nine additional
marijuana plants growing in pots at or around a detached garage that was on the premises. All of
the marijuana plants appeared to be healthy and well-maintained.

Police searched the upstairs laboratory area and found three gallon-size ziplock bags
containing marijuana plant material on a table. Located inside the rear closet of the laboratory
was another unlabeled pill bottle that contained approximately 140 Tramadol pills, a narcotic
analgesic and Schedule IV CDS, and three pills of Tizanidine, a prescription-only muscle

relaxer. In that closet, police also found an unlabeled pill bottle containing approximately 76
