Scheduling Conference and no one appeared on her behalf. The State was represented by the
Administrative Prosecutor from the Maryland Office of the Attorney General, who appeared at
the conference. After waiting more than 15 minutes for the Respondent to appear, the ALJ
proceeded with the Scheduling Conference in the Respondent’s absence. COMAR 28.02.01.23A.
During the Scheduling Conference, a Prehearing Conference was scheduled for July 6, 2017, at
9:30 a.m. at OAH in Hunt Valley, Maryland. COMAR 28.02.01.17.

On June 2, 2017, OAH mailed a Notice of In-Person Prehearing Conference (Notice of
Prehearing Conference) to each party at the party’s respective address of record. The Notice of
Prehearing Conference mailed to the Respondent was not returned to OAH by the postal service.
The Notice of Prehearing Conference informed the parties of the date, time, and location of the
Prehearing Conference and enclosed instructions directing each party to prepare and submit a
Prehearing Statement in advance of the Prehearing Conference. Further, the Notice of Prehearing
Conference informed the parties that failure to attend the July 6, 2017, Prehearing Conference
could result in a decision against the party for failing to appear.

Separately, on June 1, 2017, the ALJ issued a Scheduling Order notifying the parties of
the date, time, and location of the Prehearing Conference, among other things, which was mailed
to each party at the party’s respective address of record. The copy of the Scheduling Order
mailed to the Respondent was not returned to OAH by the postal service.

The Respondent did not appear for the July 6, 2017, Prehearing Conference as scheduled,
nor did anyone appear on his behalf. The Respondent did not request a postponement of the
Prehearing Conference and did not submit a Prehearing Statement in advance of the prehearing
Conference, as instructed. After waiting more than fifteen minutes for the Respondent to appear,

the ALJ commenced the Prehearing Conference in the Respondent’s absence. The State,
