("Individual A")? who had information about the Respondent. Individual A stated that on
or about September 8, 2016, he/she observed "grow rooms" in the master bedroom of
the Respondent's residence, which he/she photographed and provided to Board staff.
Individual A stated that after making these observations, he/she reported the matter to
the police. Individual A stated that he/she never observed the Respondent use
marijuana but did witness her using "narcotic pills" and described her as an “addict.”
Individual A stated that the Respondent writes prescriptions for opioids for a "friend,"
who shares the prescriptions with her. Individual A stated that he/she had knowledge
that the Respondent has accepted the remainder of narcotics prescriptions from
patients and reconstituted them in her Maryland residence into a different form for sale.
Individual A also stated that one of the Respondent's former employees told him/her
that the Respondent takes used Fentanyl sublingual spray packaging home and ingests
the residual drug out of the spray applicator.

14. On November 17, 2016, Board staff scheduled an interview with the
Respondent. The Respondent arrived more than one hour late for the interview. As a
result, Board staff rescheduled the interview and instructed the Respondent to go to a
specific medical laboratory for toxicology testing at 1:00 p.m. Board staff provided the
Respondent with printed directions to the laboratory, which was approximately 12 miles
from the Board's office. The Respondent arrived at the laboratory more than two hours
late for her appointment. During that time, Board staff had multiple telephone
conversations with the Respondent, who sounded confused and disoriented. The

Respondent underwent testing that was positive for the presence of Fentanyl,

? For confidentiality purposes, the names of all individuals referenced herein, other than the Respondent,
will not be disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of any individual
referenced herein by contacting the assigned administrative prosecutor.

5
