to Md., Code Ann., State Gov’t II § 10-226(c)(2), concluding that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively required emergency action. In its Order, Panel A stated,
the Respondent presents a substantial likelihood of risk of serious harm
to the public, health, safety and welfare. The Respondent is currently
facing felony CDS manufacturing charges and misdemeanor CDS
possession charges. The CDS possession charges involve, inter alia, the
possession of Schedule II opioid medications. During the Board’s
investigation, the Respondent exhibited erratic, impaired and aberrant
behaviors, and in toxicology testing, tested positive for multiple opioid
medications.
On January 11, 2017, the Respondent appeared for a post-deprivation hearing before
Panel A to address its Order. After hearing arguments from the parties, Panel A continued the
summary suspension.
V. Temporary Suspension of Respondent’s Delaware Medical License, January 18, 2017
On January 18, 2017, the Delaware Board issued an Order Accepting Complaint and
Granting Emergency Temporary Suspension, in which it temporarily suspended the
Respondent’s Delaware medical license, finding that it had a reasonable belief that the
Respondent’s continued practice presented a clear and immediate danger to the public health.
The Delaware Board set forth several ground for suspending the Respondent’s Delaware
medical license, including those that were referenced in the Board’s order of summary
suspension. In addition, the Delaware Board noted that the Delaware Department of Justice filed
with the Delaware Board a Complaint and Motion for Temporary Suspension, in which it
alleged:
Dr. Dickinson prescribed Subsys”! to her patients for the off-label use of
treating non-cancer pain. Dr. Dickinson took possession of one of her

patient’s Subsys prescriptions, indicating she would return it to the
pharmacy after the patient indicated he did not want it. Dr. Dickinson

? Subsys is a trade name for sublingual formulation of fentanyl, which is typically prescribed for
breakthrough cancer pain.

11
