Damean William Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Wendie Renee Williams, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender J am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Permanent Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in
any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and
that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

1 affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I will present to
the Board my drug dispensing permit (if applicable). I also affirm that I will provide access
to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health
General article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any
application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.

1 acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have consulted with an attorney before signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both
the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge
that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours, uO
Zona LDL0L2%

Wendie Renee Williams, M.D.
