program causes a change in the person or person who control or operate the
assisted living program, the assisted living program is considered a new program
and the licensee shall apply for a new license and conform to all regulations
applicable at the time of transfer of operations.’

16. On September 9, 2016, Board staff conducted an interview® of

Individual A® under oath. Individual A testified to the following:

a. Individual A had been the assisted living manager at the Facility
from 2004;
b. As owner of the Facility, Respondent “made sure | hired the right

people, that | get a nurse, that if families had any issues, we just
contacted her;”

Cc. One of Individual A’s duties was to hire a delegating nurse for the
Facility;

d. At times, Respondent performed the role of the delegating nurse;

e. Respondent came to the Facility almost every day until 2012, when

thereafter, she came approximately once a week;

f. On occasion, Respondent refilled patients’ prescriptions if a patient
was out of medicine;

g. Respondent assisted Individual A to address and correct
deficiencies after an inspection by OHCQ;

h. In September 2015, Individual A entered a lease-purchase
agreement with Respondent to purchase the assisted living

” See Code Md. Regs. 10.07.14.08 which pertain to the licensing of Assisted Living Programs in
Maryland.

* Individual A was incarcerated in a detention center at the time of the interview.

° On August 3, 2016, Individual A pled guilty and was found guilty by the Baltimore County Circuit
Court of operating an assisted living home without a license and pled guilty and was found guilty
of one count of abuse/neglect of a vulnerable adult-custodian. Individual A was sentenced to two
years of incarceration and ordered to pay restitution of $7912.00 to the victim. On November 29,
2016, Individual A entered a guilty plea in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland in
regard to bank fraud and aggravated identity theft arising out of his opening credit card accounts
using stolen identity information, including social security numbers of three elderly residents who
were in his care at the Facility. As part of his scheme to defraud the bank, Individual A received
credit cards from the bank and added himself as an authorized user, making over $75,000 in
purchases using the accounts. Individual A was sentenced on June 16, 2017.
