d. On May 4, 2014, Respondent submitted an application for renewal
of the Facility’s Assisted Living License. OHCQ issued a license to
Respondent for the Facility, which expired on February 15, 2016;

e. On June 25, 2015, OHCQ received a complaint from the Baltimore
County Fire Department regarding “serious life safety/fire code
violations based on 95 year old resident who lived on the second
floor of the Facility, sleeping on a deflatable mattress, who had bed
sores. The elevator was broken and there were mattresses up
against exit doors. The male staff uses a hot plate to cook meals in
his room.” Later, an OHCQ surveyor who was on-site reported that
the Facility had boxes of medications locked in the staff person’s
office. Respondent is listed as the “Administrator” on the OHCQ
Intake Information form.

f. On June 26, June 29, and June 30, 2015, OHCQ conducted a
survey of the Facility. On OHCQ's list of staff at the Facility,
Respondent was listed as the “Delegating Nurse;”

g. On November 30, 2015, OHCQ received a complaint from an
assisted living provider who had gone to the Facility to pick up a
resident who was relocating to another facility, stating, “There was
no staff in the house. One of the last 3 remaining residents
answered the door and he is in a wheelchair. The resident stated
that the owner (Individual A) went to get coffee.” Respondent is
listed as the “Administrator” in the OHCQ Intake Notes;

h. On December 3, 2015, OHCQ received a complaint from the police
department regarding the Facility stating, “Referral from police
department pertaining to criminal neglect. The incident occurred on
December 3, 2015.” Respondent is listed as the “Administrator” on
the OHCQ Intake Information form; and

i. On December 4, 2015, OHCQ received a complaint from the
neighbor regarding the Facility stating, “The fire alarm went off and
the police and fire department came to investigate and they found
that the residents were left alone.” Respondent is listed as the
“Administrator” on the OHCQ Intake Information form.

15. On July 27, 2016, the Board obtained additional investigative
information from OHCQ. OHCQ informed the Board that it does not have any
information on file regarding a change in ownership of the Facility after June 2,

2015. OHCQ confirmed that if a sale, transfer, or lease of an assisted living
