 

Wendie Renee Williams, Jr., M.D.

 
 
 

Date: Beeember——, 2017 oe
Yen wery 4.2018
Damean William Freas, Chair
Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Wendie Renee Williams, M.D. License Number: D58141
Case Number: 2016-0470 B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to permanently SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D58141, that expired on
September 30, 2017, effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my license,
I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act’’), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the permanent surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on July
28, 2017, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine). Specifically, Panel B
alleged that my operation of an assisted living facility in Maryland for which I was the
license holder was unprofessional and | failed to provide residents with proper and
adequate assisted living services. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have
decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges and because I
am licensed to practice medicine in Texas and have not practiced my specialty in Maryland
for several years.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
