Yesterday, June 1, 2015, at approximately 7:00 pm, | was called at home
by (Physician 1) and notified that she had just been called by (Physician
Assistant A) and informed that (Physician Assistant B), who was working
in the ED, had contacted her with concerns that Dr Caroline Gerhardt may
be impaired. (Physician Assistant B) had noted slurred speech and
different, irregular handwriting. Because of these suspicions | returned to
the ED.

On arrival to the ED at approximately 8:00 pm, | met with (ED physician)
and we interviewed Dr Gerhardt in the ED office. It was apparent that Dr.
Gerhardt was indeed slurring her words and seemed slow to respond.
She was not lethargic and | did not smell any odor of alcohol. | asked Dr
G about a possible reason for her slurred speech and she stated that she
had taken Benadryl 50 mg in the morning for seasonal allergies. She
denied taking any opiate pain medication, any benzodiazepines
medication, Tramadol, or any medication besides the Benadryl. She
denied drinking any alcohol, and as on previous questioning, stated she
does not drink alcohol. | made my concerns known to Dr G and told her
she could not continue her shift and | would like to have her tested for
blood alcohol and a urine tox screen. | also said that she could not return
to work until she was tested and we had the results. ... (Physician
Assistant C) also stated she noted slurred speech.

Today (June 2, 2015) | contacted Dr. G ... and told her to come to
(Hospital A) outpatient lab where she agreed to have blood drawn for
alcohol and a urine tox screen. While waiting for the results Dr G informed

me that she had taken Ativan last night after leaving the ED because of a

panic attack...Physician 1 had informed me earlier that Dr G had told her

that she had taken Tylenol #3 for cramps 3 days ago.... | asked Dr G

about the BAL 36 and she then said ‘I had a beer last night.’ ...she then

said she had more than one beer.

8. On July 30, 2015, the Board directed Respondent to submit a response to
the complaint within ten business days.

9. On August 28, 2015, Respondent signed a voluntary agreement with the
Maryland Physician Health Program ("MPHP”) wherein she agreed to cease the
practice of medicine immediately until informed otherwise by MPHP.

10. On August 31, 2015, the Board received Respondent's written response

which contained the following:
