Mickey O. Mills, M.D.

Date: T une | i, LOZO

Damean Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Mickey O. Mills, M.D.

License Number: D61073

Case Number: 7718-0095

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. (“Health Oce.”)
§4-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D61073, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 e
seg, and other applicable laws, In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland,

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I entered a Consent Order on April 6, 2018 with Disciplinary Panel B of the
Board that concluded that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (unprofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine), (4) (Professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent in the practice of medicine), (8) (Addicted to, or habitually abuses, any
narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article), and (9)(ii) (Provides professional services while using any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or other drug
that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication).

The Consent Order required me to enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (MPRP) and comply with all terms and conditions of MPRP. I
acknowledge that the Board is currently investigating allegations of violations of the
