Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Mickey O. Mills, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

MPRP terms and conditions and violation of the Consent Order. A copy of the Consent
Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and because
I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Consent Order. I acknowledge that the
Consent Order remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however,
upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the
conditions of the Order as long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand
that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records to my
patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree
to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of
Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board or a disciplinary panel of the
Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland
License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement;
and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose terms and conditions in conformity with
or in addition to those set forth in the Consent Order. I further understand that if I ever
file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
