otherwise foreseeably harm the individual.” AMA Guidelines § 9.1.1. The Panel finds that
exploiting trust, knowledge, and engaging in other behavior that could harm a former patient are
unethical whether such exploitation is sexual, financial, or otherwise. Dr. Singhal’s sexual
relationship with Patient 1’s wife, while occurring after the patient-physician relationship ended,
was part of the same string of conduct and cannot be so easily separated from his role as
physician merely because his sexual relationship with Patient 1’s wife was not consummated
until after the treatment sessions ended.

Second, Dr. Singhal’s conduct harmed Patient 1. As discussed above, Patient | exhibited
significant signs of harm as indicated by his suicide attempts, extreme weight loss, loss of trust,
and anger and expressions of violence towards Dr. Singhal. The fact that the sexual relationship
did not occur until Patient 1 was a recent former patient does not eliminate this element. The
severe harm that Patient 1 suffered by Dr. Singhal’s actions taken approximately six months after
the treatment sessions ended is still significant. Here, Patient 1 suffered real and serious harm,
unlike other cases where unprofessional conduct was found even when there was potential for
harm to the patients and not actual harm. See Board of Physician Quality Assur. v. Banks, 354
Md. 59, 72-73 (1999) (holding that harassing co-workers was in the practice of medicine because
it could be a threat to patient care).

Finally, Dr. Singhal’s conduct diminishes the status of the profession as caregivers and
diminishes the standing of the medical profession. Patients need to be able to trust that the
information they tell their medical professionals, and psychiatrists in particular, will not be used
in furtherance of the physician’s self-interest at the expense of the patient’s well-being. The
American Psychiatrist Association Commentary on Ethics in Practice notes that “psychiatric

patients may be especially vulnerable to undue influence and the psychiatrist should be sensitive

20
