Legal Framework
The grounds for reprimand or probation of a licensee, or suspension or revocation /
of a license under the Maryland Medical Practice Act include the following:
(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a
‘disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the
disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation,
or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:
(G) Is guilty of: :
(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; or
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[.]
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and Gi) (Supp. 2019). Practicing medicine includes “{d]iagnosing,
healing, treating, preventing, prescribing for, or removing any physical, mental, or emotional
ailment or supposed ailment of an individual: 1. [bly physical, mental, emotional, or other
process that is exercised or invoked by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or 2, [bly appliance,
test, drug, operation, or treatment...” Health Occ. § 14-101(0) (2014).

A chronological review of decisions pertaining to “conduct in the practice of medicine” is
instructive. In McDonnell v. Comm’n on Med. Discipline, 301 Md, 426 (1984), the court
concluded that the legislature did not intend fora physician's general moral character to be
subject to sanction, thus, “in the practice of medicine” “is directly tied to the physician's conduct

_ in the actual performance of the practice of medicine, ie., in the diagnosis, care, or treatment of
patients.” Id, at 436-437 (attempt by physician to intimidate witnesses scheduled to testify
against him at a medical malpractice trial), However, in Bd. of Physician Quality Assurance v.
Banks, 354 Md. 59 (1999), the coutt rejected Banks’ argument that his sexual harassment of co-
workers doring the hours of employment was not immoral or: unprofessional conduct in the

practice of medicine. . The Banks court found the physician’s behavior “sufficiently intertwined

with patient care to constitute misconduct in the practice of medicine.” Jd. at 76-77.

10
