Because this incident occurred while Patient 1 was a current patient, neither party spends
much time discussing whether this was in the practice of medicine. The Panel finds that because
this instance included inappropriate social interactions with Patient 1 and Patient 1’s wife, Dr.
Singhal crossed a boundary, and this occurred in the practice of medicine. Further, when Dr.
Singhal returned Patient 1’s wife to the house, Dr. Singhal was indifferent to Patient 1’s anxiety
and concerns about the length of the car ride, which affected Patient 1’s well-being and treatment
relationship with Dr. Singhal, placing this conduct to the practice of medicine. The Panel finds
Dr. Singhal’s actions involving this Tesla incident constituted unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

Text Message

Dr. Singhal excepts to the ALJ’s finding that the text message incident was
unprofessional in the practice of medicine. After Patient 1 found out about the sexual
relationship between his wife and Dr. Singhal, Patient | reported the incident to Dr. Singhal’s
employer. Dr. Singhal’s employer told Dr. Singhal not to contact Patient | or Patient 1’s wife.
However, on January 5, 2018, Dr. Singhal sent a text message to both Patient 1 and his wife that
said, “My understanding is that under the ethical guidelines and legal! limitations harshest
consequences await me. You should be happy to know that You {sic] have successfully
damaged my present and future.” The ALJ found it unprofessional for Dr. Singhal to reach out
to say that the patient should be happy to hear that the physician’s career was damaged. In the
finding of fact section above, the Panel addressed Dr. Singhal’s exceptions claiming that he was
not blaming Patient 1 for his career problems, but, rather, was defusing a violent situation and
arguing that the State’s expert should not have testified to the intention of the text message. As

discussed above, the Panel finds that the text message was sent to vent his frustration and place

24
