ro The Respondent said he did not consider his text as patient-blaming, but instead

hoped it would calf s upset to know the Respondent was facing consequences. The
Respondent testified that he completed s corrective action plan.

When asked on cross-examination how he thought the affair atfecreil the Respondent
replied thal es not his patient at the time. He explained that until} stopped his treatment,
he had only missed’ one appointment. He had been compliant with treatment, dietary
recommendations, and medication. Months of absence from appointments signaled to the
Respondent thal was not coming back. The Respondent testified that by the end of January or
early February fff woutd have run out of his medications. The affair began in June.

The Respondent was asked whether it would have been reasonable fo expect the
Respondent to avoid harming him after his treatment period ended; the Respondent replied yes
that it would have been reasonable. However, he could find no clear guidance that he owed a
duty ofl as a former patient. (Transcript Vol. lll, p. 586.) When asked about dual roles, the
Respondent did not view the issue as Dr hac. He drew a distinction between treatment
involving therapy or relationship issues, verses limited medication management appointments.
However, the Respondent admitted that in hindsight, he should have distanced himself fron

The Respondent answered his attomey’s questions more directly than the administrative
prosecutor's questions. More than once, I had to interject in cross-examination and direct the
Respondent to answer Mr. Brown’s questions. The questions were not ‘difficult questions; it was
the subject matter that was difficult for him. I find that the Respondent was intentionally
evasive, and it was apparent to me that he had feelings for | for a considerable period before. :

the affair began. It would make no sense to treat for ice cream on their extended car ride if he

did not, It would make no sense to involve her in choosing retirement party music selections

23
