The Board also presented the testimony of While her discomfort was obvious A
provided her answers directly and thoughtfully. I found her recollection of events credible. Ea
explained that she was employed at{aes a receptionist from approximately 2005 until she left
in 2012 to stay home with her first child. As the Medical Director, the Respondent was one
of her supervisors and she described having a good working relationship with him. However ig
testified about an awkward exchange when she submitted her resignation. Speaking privately
with the Respondent, he told her that he was upset to see her go, and he placed his hand on her
knee, which left her feeling uncomfortable. Bh esisica that she maintained contact with the
Respondent after icaving Ill employment. He agreed to see her niece as a patient also
spoke with the Respondent about prohlems her husband was experiencing, and he agreed to
accept him as a patient as wet recalled the Respondent telling her on one occasion that her
husband missed an appointment. Other than | testified that the Respondent never
discussed her husband’s treatment or care.

Peasixtea that while her husband was.a patient, the Respondent visited their home one or
two times, Fasc she did not invite him, but he visited to photograph their horses arid to show
them his new car.!° Bc the Responded toll and their son for a quick ride in the car for
no more than a few minutes. The Respondent then took her for a ride for roughly an hour to an
hour and a half. On the Respondent’s suggestion, he andi stopped for ice cream during the
ride I testified that she felt uncomfortable and at one point, the Respondent asked her what |

she thought it meant that she appeared in a dream that he had. (Transcript Vol. II, p. 265-266.)

 

1© There was uncertainty among all witnesses whether the horse photography occurred before or whilel—l was the

Respondent’s-patient, All witnesses agree that the Respondent’s visit with his Tesla occurred whildfwas his
patient. .

“15
