blame on the Patient 1 and his wife. The Panel rejects Dr. Singhal’s claim that he was not
blaming Patient 1 for his professional problems. The Panel accepts the ALJ’s finding that
sending this text message to Patient 1 and his wife constitutes unprofessional conduct.

Dr. Singhal was trying to make his former patient, who suffered from depression and
anxiety, take blame for reporting Dr. Singhal’s wrongdoing to Dr. Singhal’s employer. There
was no medical purpose or benefit to sending the message, the message reinflamed the feelings
of a breach of trust that Patient I had felt, and Dr. Singhal had been told not to communicate
further with Patient 1.

Dr. Singhal claims that because he sent the text message when Patient | was no longer a
patient, the conduct did not occur in the practice of medicine and because the type of conduct
was not specifically listed in the statute or regulations, it cannot be considered unprofessional in
the practice of medicine. The Panel finds that these arguments are without merit.

The ALJ explained that Patient 1’s complaint to Dr. Singhal’s employer was based on his
role as Dr. Singhal’s patient and pertained to Patient 1’s care and treatment. The Panel agrees
with the ALJ’s analysis. The fact that Patient 1 was no longer a patient when he sent the text
message does not remove this conduct from the practice of medicine. Dr. Singhal’s contact with
Patient 1 arose directly out of the physician-patient relationship they previously had. Moreover,
the purpose of sending this text message was to cause further turmoil to his former patient by
trying to make him feel at fault for Dr. Singhal’s employment problems, Dr. Singhal still owed a
duty to Patient 1 not to try to cause more discomfort to the patient. A physician who lashes out
at a former patient for reporting alleged misbehavior that emanated from their physician-patient
relationship had definite potential to worsen Patient 1’s condition. The Panel upholds the ALJ’s

finding of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine and denies Dr. Singhal’s exception.

25
