patient was harmed, and he is undergoing a corrective action plan at his work. COMAR
10,32.02.09B(5)(a), (c), (f), (h), and (i).

Panel A has considered that Dr. Singhal does not have a prior disciplinary history and has
rehabilitative potential. The Panel also takes into account the fact that the sexual relationship in
this case was not directly with a patient. However, Panel A finds that Patient 1 did experience
significant harm based on Dr. Singhal’s actions, losing 40 pounds in two months and planning
and attempting suicide and finds that the aggravating factor for causing patient harm or the
potential for causing patient harm is applicable. COMAR 10.32.02.09B(6)(c). Panel A does not
find that Dr. Singhal admitted the misconduct in this case. COMAR 10.32.02.09B(5)(c). Dr.
Singhal instead displayed a lack of honesty about the details of the sexual relationship with
Patient 1’s wife and continues to assert that he did not do anything unprofessional or immoral.

Dr. Singhal’s boundary violations were severe and troubling. As a psychiatrist, his
patients are particularly vulnerable and rely on the trust established in a psychiatrist/patient
relationship. Dr. Singhal’s sexual relationship with Patient 1’s wife, even though it occurred
after he had stopped seeing the patient professionally, violated professional boundaries and
caused significant harm to Patient 1, whom he had diagnosed with anxiety and major depressive
disorder. Dr. Singhal demonstrated no regard for his former patient’s well-being, no regret for
the harm that he caused, and, even after the sexual relationship with Patient 1’s wife ended, sent
a text message to further harm this emotionally vulnerable former patient.

Panel A believes a sanction between the State’s recommendation and Dr. Singhal’s
request is appropriate and will impose a reprimand as well as a suspension of Dr. Singhal’s
license to practice medicine in Maryland for a minimum period of six months. Dr. Singhal shall

enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and shall follow all the

30
