Under the Maryland Medical Practice Act,”!3 the Board’s charging document clearly sets forth,
inter alia, the charges, allegations of fact, and grounds for discipline. | concur with the Board’s
position that charging decisions are within the discretion of the disciplinary panel and
administrative prosecutor.'* COMAR 10.32.02.03E. Accordingly, the Respondent's motion for
judgment based upon charging decisions is denied. COMAR 28.02.01.12E. .
Analysis

The case was well-presented by both sides. The issues regarding alleged immoral and
unprofessional conduct involve four subject areas: whether the Respondent exploited the

physician-patient relationship to pursue; the appropriateness of his visit toll and a: home;

the affair; and the Respondent’s text message of andj afterfis complaint sO |

 

3A copy of the charges is contained in the OAH file.

\4 the Board responded that the sexual misconduct definitions under COMAR had been amended, and this case
preceded the amendment. The affair was exposed in December 2017. Effective July 1, 2017, COMAR
10.17.32.02B(1)(a) and (b) read as follows:
(1) Key Third Party.
(a) “Key third party” means an individual who participates in the health and welfare of the
patient concurrent with the physician-patient relationship.
(b) “Key third party” includes, but is not limited to the following individuals;
(i) Spouse;

Effective July 1, 2017, COMAR-10.17.32.03B(3) read as follows:
(3) “Sexual Misconduct” means a health care practitioner's behavior toward a patient, former
patient or a key third party, which includes:
(a) Sexual impropriety;
(b) Sexual violation; or :
(c) Engaging in a dating, romantic or sexual relationship which violates the code of ethics of the
[AMA], ....[APAI, or other standard recognized professional code of ethics of the health care
practitioner’s discipline or specialty. :
Because I conclude that charging decisions are-within the discretion of the disciplinary pane! and
administrative prosecutor and that the Respondent received proper notice of the violations alleged, I do not
address the Board’s argument regarding changes to COMAR. ,

27
