10,32.17.02B(2)(a) [emphasis added], 10.32.17.02B@)(b)@).”” While there is no evidence in the
recotd | participated inf: treatment, as his spouse she was arguably a key third party. 6
The Board offered no direct legal authority to support its contention that the affair

violated sections-14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) of the Health Occupations Article. Dr. FF onctucea
that the affair “violated the contract the Respondent had with which was ‘First do no harm.’”
(Board Ex, G2.) oi saw no violation because the affair began six months after the last
appointment between the Respondent anda (Resp. Ex. 9.) Apparently having viewed the
situation similarly to Dr. Ea a ovr a corrective action but continued the
Respondent's employment. In considering the opinions, I find Drs interpretation overly
broad. “(Because there is a punitive aspect to the proceedings, statutes which authorize the

imposition of sanctions against the licensed professional should be strictly construed against the

 

5 Likewise, effective July 1, 2017, COMAR 10,17.32.02B(1)(a) defined a key third party as an individual who
participates in the health and welfare of the patient concurrent with the physiciai-patient relationship.
'6 Currently, COMAR 10.32.17.03D, Sexual or Romantic Relationships, provides that a health care practitioner may
not engage in sexua! behavior with:
(1) A current patient;
(2) A key third party if the key third party’s decisions directly affect the health and welfare of the
_ patient or if the relationship could otherwise compromise the patient’s care based on the
following considerations, which include, but are not limited to: :
(a) The nature of the patient’s medical problem and the likely effect on patient care;
(b) The length of the professional relationship;
(c) The degree of emotional dependence on the health care practitioner;
(d) The importance of the clinical encounter to the key third party and the patient; and
(e) Whether the health care practitioner-patient relationship can be terminated in keeping with
ethics guidance and what implications doing so would have for the patient; and
(3) A former patient upon consideration of the following factors:
(a) Duration of the health care’practitioner-patient relationship;
(b) Nature of the health care services provided;
(c) Lapse of time since the health care practitioner-patient relationship ended;
(d) Extent to which the former patient confided personal or private information to the health
care practitioner; :
_ (e) Degree of emotional dependence that the former patient has or had on the health care
practitioner; , , :
(f) Extent to which the health care practitioner used or exploited the trust, knowledge, emotions,
or influence derived from the previous health care practitioner-patient relationship; and
(g) Whether the health care practitioner-patient relationship was terminated in order to enter into
a romantic or sexual relationship. :
There was no such corollary COMAR language at the time of the affair,

30
