“immediate process of diagnosing, evaluating, examining or treating a patient . . . [because that]
would lead to unreasonable results and render the statute inadequate to deal with many situations
which may arise.” Banks, 354 Md. at 73.

Dr. Singhal’s sexual relationship with Patient L’s wife

As the Court of Appeals found in the Finucan case, the Panel finds that Dr. Singhal
exploited the intimate knowledge he obtained from treating Patient 1 to help him engage ina
sexual relationship with Patient I’s wife. The Finucan Court stated: “Dr. Finucan used his
professional skills and his knowledge of his three female patients’ personal and familial
situations to play upon their emotional vulnerabilities, even if they facially consented to the
sexual relationships.” See Finucan, 380 Md. at 596. Here, Dr. Singhal asked about Patient 1 and
Patient 1’s wife’s sexual positions and knew about Patient I's sexual difficulties, placing himself
in a position to exploit the intimate patient information. See Finucan, 380 Md. at 599. The
Court of Appeals observed that “Dr. Finucan . . . capitalized on his knowledge that Patient D’s
husband was in training on the Eastern Shore.” Id. at 598. Similarly, here, Dr. Singhal used his
position as Patient 1’s psychiatrist to advise him to give Patient 1°s wife “space” which strained
their relationship. Dr. Singhal had a sexual interest in Patient 1’s wife. The advice he gave to
Patient 1 put Dr. Singhal in a position where he put his own gratification above that of his
patient, which the Finucan Court ruled was immoral and unprofessional. Jd.

Finally, Dr. Singhal’s behavior harmed Patient 1. In Finucan, “although we do not know
the reason for Patient D’s apparent suicide attempt (because she did not testify), we do know that
the attempt occurred while she and Dr. Finucan were cohabiting. Dr. Finucan’s conduct runs
afoul of the maxim ‘primum non nocere’ or ‘first, do no harm.’” Jd, at 598-99. Dr. Singhal

acknowledged in his interview that his sexual relationship with Patient 1’s wife would negatively

17
