When considering a Motion for Judgment during a non-jury trial, the judge,.as the trier of
fact, may determine the facts and render judgment against the non-moving party. Pahanish v.
Western Trails, Inc., 69 Md. App. 342, 353 (1986).'? The judge may evaluate the evidence,
including making inferences, determining credibility and drawing conclusions. Id.

First, the Respondent complained that Dr. Be: report failed to provide a basis for her
opinion. In her report, Dr. Fg wrote that she reviewed the information provided to her by the
Board and “fa]dditionally, I reviewed a 2015 document from the [APA], titled “APA
Commentary on Ethics in Practice. After reviewing these records, I have the following
opinions...” (Board Ex. G.2.) I find the Respondent’s complaint to be one of semantics rather °
than substance. Regardless whether pr. used the word “reviewed” or the Respondent’ s

_ preferred word “relied,” it is plainly evident that Dr considered the APA Commentary on
Ethics in Practice when she evaluated the Respondent’s case. The Respondent was on notice
- precisely which document to review in order to analyze pr: expert opinions and prepare
his case. Accordingly, the Respondent’s motion for judgment based upon pr Es report is
denied. COMAR 28.02.01.12E.

Second, the Respondent was troubled by the charging decisions in this case. The case
centers around the affair betel a the Respondent, and the Respondent complained that he
has been charged “under the amorphous categories of immoral conduct.or unprofessional
conduct,” (Transcript Vol. Il, p. 323.) The Respondent argued that under Accardi, the Board has

ignored its own regulations and denied him due process. Upon review of the Board’s “Charges

 

2 This language of the Motion for Judgement provision in the OAH mules of procedure is akin to the Maryland
Rules regarding Motions for Judgment in the circuit and distriét courts. See Maryland Rules 2-519 and 3-519,
Thus, | find that case law interpreting the circuit and district court provisions is persuasive and informative.
regarding the proper interpretation of the OAH provision.

26
