credibility determinations were, in fact, demeanor-based and therefore were owed deference
under the Shrieves case. Shrieves, 100 Md. App. at 299. As an example of a demeanor-based
credibility determination, Dr. Singhal relies upon the ALJ’s finding that he was “intentionally
evasive” when discussing matters pertaining to the sexual relationship with Patient 1’s wife but
was “methodical and logical” when discussing his treatment of Patient 1.

Under Shrieves, substantial deference is due only to the ALJ’s demeanor-based
credibility findings. Jd. at 302 (“where credibility is pivotal to the agency’s final order, ALJ’s
findings based on the demeanor of witnesses are entitled to substantial deference and can be
rejected by the agency only if it gives strong reasons for doing so”) (emphasis added). A
witness’s demeanor is outward behavior and appearance, such as facial expressions, tone of
voice, gestures, posture, eye-contact with questioner, and readiness or hesitancy to answer
questions, but does not include conclusory statements that a witness was “persuasive” and
“credible.” State Bd. of Physicians v. Bernstein, 167 Md. App. 714, 759-60 (2006).

In this case, the ALJ’s credibility determinations were not demeanor based. The ALJ
rejected Patient 1’s testimony as embellished based on Patient 1*s bias against Dr. Singhal and
alleged inconsistencies between his complaint, statements to the Board, and his testimony before
the ALJ. Inconsistencies and bias do not create demeanor-based credibility determinations, but
can be determined from the cold record. See e.g. Maryland Board of Physicians v. Elliott, 170
Md. App. 369, 393 (2006).

Similarly, the ALJ’s statement that Dr. Singhal should be believed in part because he was
“methodical and logical” and, in part, not believed because he was “intentionally evasive” do not
constitute demeanor-based findings. The Panel can determine whether Dr. Singhal’s testimony

was logical and organized and intentionally evasive based on a cold record. The ALJ did not cite

5
