will discuss below, the Panel agrees with the second exception that Dr. Singhal’s conduct was
unprofessional and immoral in the practice of medicine. The Panel does not agree with the
State’s third exception. The Panel does not accept the sanction recommended by the ALJ, the
State, or Dr. Singhal and will address the appropriate sanction below.

Dr. Singhal also filed an exception with regard to the text message incident, arguing that
the ALJ erred in finding that the text message was in the practice of medicine, since it concerned
a former, rather than a current patient, and erred in finding it to be unprofessional conduct,
arguing that the intention of the text message was intended to soothe Patient 1 and was not meant
to make him feel guilty or to chastise him. The Panel uphold the ALJ’s recommendation on this
point and rejects Dr. Singhal’s exception.

Whether Dr. Singhal’s Actions Constitute Immoral or Unprofessional Conduct in the
Practice of Medicine, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) & (ii)

“Immoral Conduct” is determined by the “common judgment” of the profession as
determined by the professional licensing board. Finucan v. Maryland Board of Physician
Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577, 594 (2004). Unprofessional conduct is defined as “conduct
which breaches the rules or ethical code of a profession, or which is conduct unbecoming a
member of good standing of a profession.” Finucan, 380 Md. at 594. Unprofessional conduct
may also be found when a physician abuses his or her status as a physician in such a manner as
to harm patients or diminish the standing of the medical profession in the eyes of a reasonable
member of the general public. Jd. at 601. In the Finucan case, Dr. Finucan had a sexual
relationship with three patients. The Court of Appeals noted several issues with the sexual
relationships that caused the relationship to be considered unprofessional and immoral conduct.

First, the sexual relationships may grow out of and become entangled with the
physician-patient relationship. Second, a physician places himself or herself in the

15
