previous statement, Dr. Singhal reported that he had seen Patient 1 for an additional treatment to
address Patient 1’s depression after the sexual relationship began, but that Dr. Singhal felt that it
would be a conflict of interest to continue to treat Patient 1 and thus referred Patient | to another
physician in the practice. This was incorrect. Dr. Singhal sent a follow-up letter explaining that
he had remembered incorrectly, and that Dr. Singhal had not seen Patient 1 as a patient after the
sexual relationship began. Dr. Singhal did not merely misremember the timeline, rather, he
invented a story about referring Patient | to another physician based on his concerns of a
conflict. The patient referral did not occur. Dr. Singhal fabricated the referral to minimize his
culpability.

Another example concerns the timing of when the sexual relationship began. Patient 1’s
wife testified that she and Dr. Singhal began their sexual relationship in June 2016 at a
retirement party for a friend, where they engaged in kissing, touching, and eventually oral sex in
Dr. Singhal’s car and Dr. Singhal’s office. In his interview with the Board, Dr. Singhal first
stated that his relationship with Patient 1’s wife became physical or sexual in September or
October 2016. When asked more details about the June encounter with Patient 1’s wife, he
described it as standing next to each other and “it got a little physical at that time . . . [a]nd
subsequently there were more sort of text exchanges that got more intimate in nature.” When
asked about the nature of the physical contact at the June party, he asserted that it was “kissing
{and] hugging” and that this occurred only in his car. When further pressed about whether there
was oral sex, Dr. Singhal admitted that there was oral sex as well. When asked if he ever had
sex, including oral sex with Patient 1’s wife in his office, Dr. Singhal admitted to doing so only
one time, but not following the June 2016 retirement party. In his testimony at the hearing, Dr.

Singhal contradicted his prior testimony after hearing Patient 1’s wife’s testimony that they had

il
