oral sex in his office in June 2016. Dr. Singhal admitted that they were in the car and then ended
at his office with kissing, touching and oral sex? Dr. Singhal’s statements were not only
inconsistent in a way that consistently minimized his conduct, but disregarded the truth. The
Panel finds that Dr. Singhal’s inconsistent statements demonstrate his intent to deceive.
Factual dispute regarding the intent and meaning of the text message

The other factual dispute between the parties is related to the text message Dr. Singhal
sent to Patient 1 and his wife. After Patient | found out about the sexual relationship between
his wife and Dr. Singhal, Patient I reported the incident to Dr. Singhal’s employer. Dr.
Singhal’s employer told Dr. Singhal not to contact Patient 1 or Patient 1’s wife. However, on
January 5, 2018, Dr. Singhal sent the following text message to both Patient 1 and Patient 1’s
wife:

I apologize for sending this message to you since both of you asked me to stay

away from you. I only want to apprise you of my bleak situation. Since both of

you have communicated together recently, I’m sending this to both of you

together. Subsequent to your complaint to my employer I have been called to

appear in front of executives and board members to decide my fate. My

understanding is that under the ethical guidelines and legal limitations harshest

consequences await me. You should be happy to know that You [sic] have

successfully damaged my present and future.
The State’s expert indicated that Dr. Singhal’s statement that Patient 1 should be happy to know
that he damaged Dr. Singhal’s career was blaming Patient 1 and Patient 1’s wife for harming Dr.

Singhal’s career. In essence, the State’s expert stated that this was “paslighting,” blaming the

patient for the potential consequences of Dr. Singhal’s own mistakes. The ALJ agreed, finding

 

3 In a previous statement Dr. Singhal said that Patient 1’s wife attempted to initiate physical
contact at the June 2016 party, but that Dr. Singhal rebuffed her and the affair began months later.
While this statement was not under oath, it demonstrates Dr. Singhal’s changing stories, and
reflects why he may have first indicated that the physical relationship began in September or
October 2016. It is because Dr. Singhal could not keep his stories straight.

12
