disciplinary agency.” McDonnell, 301 Md. at 436. The Board alleged immoral and professional
conduct in the practice of medicine. Practicing medicine includes “[d]iagnosing, healing, .
treating, preventing, prescribing for, or removing any physical, mental, or emotional ailment or
supposed ailment of an individual: 1. [bJy physical, mental, emotional, or other process that is
exercised or invoked by the practitioner, the patient, or both; or 2. [b]y appliance, test, drug,
operation, or treatment...” Health Occ. § 14-101(0) (2014), The Respondent was performing
none of these activities in relation oll at the time of the affair. B no longer considered the
Respondent a treatment provider, and the Respondent no longer | as a patient. a: last
appointment was in December 2015, the affair began in June 2016. Rs medication would have
run out by the end of January or early February. And both Drs. Ea anda agreed that the
lack of a formal discharge letter was not unusual. The Criminal Law article defines a bona-fide
physician-patient relationship as “a relationship in which the physician has ongoing
responsibility for the assessment, care, and treatment of a patient’s medical condition.” Crim.
Law § 5-601(c)(3)(i)(2) (2012 & Supp. 2019). The Respondent had no ongoing responsibility
for the assessment, care, and treatment offs medical condition in June 2016, Case law
pertaining to misconduct in the practice of medicine involves explicit sexual exploitation of the
physician/patient relationship, egregious sexual harassment of co-workers, or deliberate, self-
interested dishonesty. The Respondent's affair wih beginning six months after ffs final
appointment with the Respondent is not “sufficiently intertwined with patient care to constitute
misconduct in the practice of medicine.” Banks, 354 Md. at 76-77. Thus, I decline to accept Dr.
Ee: interpretation of the APA to find that the Respondent’s behavior violated sections 14-
404(a)(3)@) (immoral conduct in the practice of medicine) and 4-404(a)(3)(i) (unprofessional

conduct in the practice of medicine),

31
