p- so said the Respondent then inquired about andi s sexual relations and sexual
positions ff eiscassed the Respondent’s visit to his home while he was a patient, the purpose
being to show off his new car. testified regarding his brief ride in the Respondent’s car, and
his wife’s extended ride which involved stopping for ice cream. Beso claimed that the
Respondent took him to the parking lot during Baa eppointment, to help him fix something
which was not working properly in his car. We further testified that after the affair was
discovered, he-believes the Respondent created a fake Facebook page to attempt to contad i.
Bobeveatea how distraught he became by his wife’s infidelity, which led to both suicidal and
homicidal ideation. Bhestitiea that he was aware that his therapist warned the Respondent about
his level of upset fl stated that he wanted that barrier in place to make “make sure I don’t do
something stupid.” (Transcript Vol. I, p. 66.) He also retrieved a weapon from his car and gave
it to his therapist for safekeeping. [lig said he never cold or the Respondent that he was
discontinuing treatment, and he never received any discharge paperwork from

On cross-examination a acknowledged that after he discovered the affair, he wrote to
the Respondent and stated, “I am going to destroy your life. Your life is over.” (Transcript Vol.
I, p. 75.) Cross-examination also consisted of a thorough discussion of s medical records.

In his complaint to the Board claimed that the Respondent had an affair wit “that
started while was a patient of his.” (Bd. Ex. A.2.) Additionally, he alleged that the Respondent
put him on medication too quickly and suggested the Respondent may have drugged his wife.

Id. When interviewed by the Board i claimed the Respondent’s medication doses were too
high. (Bd. Ex, A.9, pp. 6-8.) He also claimed that the Respondent would ask him “fairly
regularly” about his sexual relations with and their sessions would last for up to two hours.

(Id. at 9, 59 and 64.) told the Board’s investigator that the Respondent only raised his doses,

13
