The Text Message

Anes discovered the affair, he = the Respondent not to have any contact
with them. There was testimony about an effort by the Respondent to have contact via a fake
Facebook page, and the Respondent denied doing so; I find the evidence weak and inconclusive.
However, after having been told not to contac) an the Respondent learned o's

complaint to aa: on January 5, 2018 sent the following text message:

I apologize for sending this message to you since both of you asked me to stay

away from you. I only want to apprise you of my bleak situation. Since both of

you have communicated together recently, I’m sending this to both of you

together. Subsequent to your complaint to my employer, | have been called to

appear in front of executives and board members to decide my fate. My

understanding is that under the ethical guidelines and legal limitation, harshest

consequences await me. And you should be happy to know that you have

successfully damaged my present and future.

(Board Ex, G.1.) Dr. Bi considered this text immoral and unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine. (Board Ex. G.2.) She found the text manipulative and emotionally
abusive. pr as report did not specifically address the text message (Resp. Ex. 9.), nor
did her testimony. The Respondent testified that he did not intend his text to be patient-blaming,
manipulative or abusive. He explained that he knew was very angry and wantedfto know
the matter has being taken seriously by his employer.

The Board offered no direct legal authority to support its contention that the text violated ,
sections 14-404(a)(3)(@) and (ii) of the Health Occupations Article. pr. : explanation for
her conclusion relied upon her interpretation of the message, considering it to be abusive, The
Respondent testified that he oy | was very angry and hoped to allay any fear fl may have
had that the matter would-not be taken seriously. Although I can read most of the text message

from both points of view, the tipping point is when the Respondent wrote, “And you should be

happy to know that you have successfully damaged my present and future.”

32
