appropriate. As explained above, the principles and analysis from the Finucan case support the
Panel’s finding of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. Whether or
not it would also be sexual misconduct is irrelevant because Dr. Singhal was never charged
under those regulatory provisions.’

The Board “has discretion over whether to proceed by adjudication or rulemaking in
developing a particular policy.” Mesbahi v. Mad. State Bd. of Physicians, 201 Md. App. 315, 332
(2011) (citing Consumer Protection Div. v. Consumer Publishing Co., 304 Md. 731, 754-56
(1985)). Here, the Panel has chosen to consider Dr. Singhal’s sexual relationship, the related
exploitation, and other wrongdoing by adjudication. Dr. Singhal claims that the Board must
follow rulemaking here because this is “a policy of general application, embodied in or
represented by a rule, is changed to a different policy of general application.” CBS, Inc. v.
Comptroller of Treasury, 319 Md. 687, 696 (1990). Dr. Singhal has made no showing that prior
to this case, it was the generally applicable policy of the Board that a physician could have a
sexual relationship with a former patient’s spouse. The fact that sex with a key third party was
prohibited by the sexual misconduct regulations, does not demonstrate that sex with a former
patient’s spouse is allowable conduct when the physician exploited that relationship, as oceurred
here. Rather, the Board’s regulations were silent. No policy of general application had been

changed and thus, CBS is inapplicable.

 

+ The Court of Special Appeals upheld the Board’s decision in a similar case where the Board
found unprofessional conduct for physician behavior that included sexual misconduct with a
patient. Roane v. Maryland Bd. of Physician, 213 Md. App. 619, 641 (2013). In that case Dr.
Roane admitted behavior for which he could have been, but was not, charged with sexual
misconduct. Id. The Court found that the sex, the exploitation of the patients, and the evidence
concerning the medication exchanged for sex constituted substantial evidence of unprofessional
conduct. Id. at 639, 641.
28
