the agency’s action if the rule, regulation, or procedure affects individual rights and obligations

or confers a procedural benefit and the individual sustains actual prejudice as a result).
Motions to dismiss are designed to evaluate whether an initial pleading fails to state.a

claim for which relief nay be granted. COMAR 28.02.01,12C. In-considering a motion to

dismiss, “a court must assume the truth of all well pleaded facts and all inferences that can be

_ reasonably be drawn from them.” Rossaki v. NUS Corp., 116 Md. App. 11, 18 (1997)."! The

grant of a motion to dismiss is proper if the complaint does not disclose, on its face, a legally

sufficient cause of action. Id.

After reviewing the bases for the Respondent’s motion, although argued as.a motion to
dismiss, I consider the motion to be a motion for jndgment. The relevant OAH regulation

provides as follows:
E. Motion for Judgment.

(1) A party may move for judgment on any or all of the issues in any action at the
close of the evidence offered by.an opposing party. The moving party shall state
all reasons why the motion should be granted. No objection to the motion for
judgment shall be necessary. A party does not waive the right to make the motion
by introducing evidence during the presentation of any opposing party's case.

(2) When a party moves for judgment at the close of the evidence offered by an
opposing party, the ALJ. may:, ‘
(a) Proceed to determine the facts and to render judgment against an
opposing party; or .
(b) Decline to render judgment until the close of all evidence.

(3) A party who moves for judgment at the close of the evidence offered by an
opposing party may offer evidence if the motion is not granted, without having

reserved the right to do so and to the same extent as if the motion had not been
made.

COMAR 28,02.01.12E,

 

1) Rossaki involves an analysis of Maryland Rules 2-322 (motion to dismiss) which is analogous to COMAR

28.02,01,12C, Analysis of the applicable Maryland Rules of Procedure is instructive on the application of the
OAH's Rules of Procedure. .

25
