affect the Patient 1’s mental health as it would create a stressful experience. In the Panel’s view,
this was a significant understatement. After finding out about the sexual relationship, Patient 1
was devastated and angry. Patient 1 lost forty pounds in two months and was so despondent over
the sexual relationship that he made suicide plans, putting a loaded rifle in his mouth. Patient |
also thought about harming Dr. Singhal, going to lengths to encourage his wife to hide the knife
he generally kept in the car, and telling a therapist about his thoughts on harming Dr. Singhal.
Patient 1 also explained that his ability to trust others diminished as a result of the affair.

Dr. Singhal was a psychiatrist providing care to a vulnerable patient with clinical
depression and anxiety. The State’s expert explained that when a patient seeks psychiatric care,
the patient reveals private fears and sources of distress. The patient trusts that the physician will
help, and not harm the patient. The State’s expert explained that it is the moral and professional
responsibility of the psychiatrist to promote the patient’s health and well-being and to treat the
patient with respect and beneficence, and that such responsibility does not end when the
treatment ends. The Panel agrees.

The ALJ found that because the conduct occurred several months after the patient-
physician relationship ended, Dr. Singhal’s sexual relationship with Patient 1’s wife was not
“sufficiently intertwined with patient care to constitute misconduct in the practice-of medicine.”
Banks, 354 Md. at 76-77. Panel A declines to accept the ALJ’s analysis. In his exceptions, Dr.
Singhal goes even further, claiming that unless there was a specific statute or regulation that
prohibited sexual conduct with a former ‘patient’s spouse, the Panel is incapable of finding
immoral or unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine. The Panel disagrees.

The Court of Appeals has stated that “the expertise of the [administrative] agency in its

own field should be respected.” Maryland Aviation Admin. v. Noland, 386 Md. 556, 572 (2005).

18
