initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15 business days, Dr. Singhal shall enter into
a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP.
Dr. Singhal shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals,
rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions of any
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
into with MPRP and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

(3) Dr. Singhal shall sign written release/consent forms, and update them, as required by
the Board and MPRP. Dr. Singhal shall sign written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order. Dr. Singhal
shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(4) Dr. Singhal shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (ie., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of Dr.
Singhal’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Dr. Singhal and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Dr. Singhal, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Singhal shall not withdraw his release/consent,

(5) Within SIX MONTHS, Dr. Singhal shall successfully complete a Board-approved
course in professionalism. The following terms apply:

(a) it is Dr. Singhal’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the disciplinary
panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) the disciplinary panel will only accept a course taken in-person;

(c) Dr. Singhal must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that he has
successfully completed the course;

(d) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education credits
required for license renewal;

(e) Dr. Singhal is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Final Decision

and Order has passed, if Dr. Singhal has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and

conditions for the suspension, and if MPRP finds and notifies the Panel that the Dr. Singhal is

return to the practice of medicine, Dr. Singhal may submit a written petition for

termination of suspension. If Dr. Singhal has complied with the relevant terms of this Order and

MPRP endorses Dr. Singhal’s return to the practice of medicine with the sole condition that he

32
