Similarly, the Panel finds it to be of minimal importance that Patient 1 claims that the
sessions were up to two hours in duration, while the medical records and testimony from Dr.
Singhal’s assistant indicate appointment times of 25-30 minutes. In Patient 1’s statement to the
Board, he said that the sessions would last one-and-a-half to two hours. In his testimony before
the ALJ, Patient 1 was adamant that the sessions were 45 minutes to an hour because he would
return to work 20 minutes late from his hour-long lunch break and the doctor’s office was only
ten minutes away. In contrast, Dr. Singhal’s secretary testified that Dr. Singhal saw four patients
an hour in 15 minute sessions, with occasional 30 minute sessions. The medical records indicate
that most sessions were 25-30 minutes. It seems that Patient 1’s memory about the length of the
sessions was based in part on his late return to the office. However, Dr. Singhal’s secretary
testified that the clinic ran behind schedule and there were often people waiting. The Panel finds
that it is likely that the medical records are accurate. Patient 1’s sessions likely took the recorded
25-30 minutes and after some period of waiting, and made him late to get back from his lunch
break. However, his inflated estimates that the visits took longer than they did are not indicative
of dishonesty any more than Dr. Singhal’s secretary was dishonest in her estimate that most
visits took only 15 minutes. The Panel does not find that the inconsistency regarding
appointment time is compelling evidence of intentional dishonesty or lack of credibility.

Patient 1’s other supposed inconsistencies or embellishments were not instances of
inconsistency or dishonesty, but speculation based on Patient \’s feelings that Dr. Singhal
betrayed him. In his interview and complaint, Patient 1 stated that he was worried that he was
being overmedicated and that his wife was being drugged. Patient 1 readily admitted in his
statement to the Board that he believed that his wife was acting in a daze or fog, but that his

accusation of Dr. Singhal drugging her was “purely me speculating.” While these claims were

9
