(when there was a large office of present employees available to assist) if he did not. It would
make no sense to sit so closely and flirt back and forth with her in the bar after the retirement
party if he did not. And it is absurd that the Respondent testified that he was not attracted |
until their affair began. (Jd. at $84.) That being said, the Respondent testified very methodically
and logically when he spoke of his medical practice, I found him credible when he testified that
he wrote notes contemporaneously with his med check appointments. After considering’ s
medical records (Bd. Ex. A.8), Fp itine records (Resp. Ex. 11), and os. is testimony, I
do not believe there was time in his appointment schedule for the Respondent ano detour to
the parking lot to trouble-shoot a problem in the Respondent’s Tesla together. I also do not
believe the Respondent asked questions regarding anf s sexual activity during med check
appointments. In sum, I find that the Respondent downplayed his feelings for Bn did not use
his physician-patient relationship with for an ulterior purpose.
Motion to Dismiss/Motion for Judgment

At the close of the Board’s case, the Respondent moved or dismissal of the charges. .The
Respondent argued that the Board failed in its proof by failing to present an expert to articulate
her opinions and failing to present evidence to satisfy the statutory definitions of sexual
‘misconduct. The Board disagreed, arguing that its expert’s report clearly identified the factual
bases for her opinion and the standards she applied in rendering her opinion. The Board further
argued that sexual misconduct and key third party definitions are irrelevant because the
Respondent was not charged under the Medical Practice Act sexual misconduct regulations, The
Respondent characterized the Board’s position as odious and violative of the Accardi doctrine.
See United States ex rel. Accardi v. Shaughnessy, 347 U.S. 260 (1954) (holding that an agency’s

failure to comply with its own rule, regulation, or procedure can furnish a basis for reversal of

24
