position of being able to exploit his or her intimate knowledge of his or her

patients and their families in order to advance the physician’s sexual interests.

Third, a physician is placed in a position where he or she may lose objectivity and

place his or her own needs for gratification above the patient’s wishes or best

interests. Finally, there is a real danger that these relationships may damage the

patient in a number of ways.

Finucan, 380 Md. at 599. The Board revoked Dr. Finucan’s license. The Court found that “he
abused his professional status and knowledge by losing objectivity and recommending treatment
for them for his own gratification, rather than for what objectively was best for the patients.” Jd.
The Court found that by abusing the trust his patients placed in him as their physician and by
taking advantage of what he knew about them from their personal lives he acted unprofessionally
and immorally. Id. at 598, Finally, the Court noted the harm that occurred to the patients. Two
of his patients sought therapy and one attempted suicide. Id. at 598-99.

The American Psychiatrist Association Commentary on Ethics in Practice also requires
that therapeutic boundaries be preserved because “Psychiatrists must never exploit or otherwise
take advantage of their patients, must avoid patient interactions that are aimed at gratifying the
psychiatrist’s needs and impulses, and not use their position to influence the patient in a manner
that may undermine or threaten treatment goals.” APA Commentary on Ethics in Practice §
3.2.6,

The second element of this violation is whether the immoral and unprofessional conduct
occurred “in the practice of medicine.” Immoral or unprofessional conduct is deemed “in the
practice of medicine” if it is “‘sufficiently intertwined with patient care’ to pose a threat to
patients or the medical profession.” Cornfeld v. State Board of Physicians, 174 Md. App. 456,
474 (2007) (quoting Board of Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59, 76-77 (1999)).

“In the practice of medicine” should not be construed narrowly and should not be limited to the

16
