too substantial a risk to the public health, safety, and welfare unless his possible underlying health
issues were properly addressed.
E. Responses from Dr. Schnitzlein and his Attorney

The Board received written responses from Dr. Schnitzlein and his attorney on August 3,
2021. The attorney disputed the Administrative Prosecutor’s remarks that Dr. Schnitzlein did not
take responsibility for his actions and stated that the panel members should rely on opinions of
those who have worked with and provided therapy to Dr. Schnitzlein. In his response, Dr.
Schnitzlein stated that he is solely responsible for his actions, understands the potential harm that
could come of them, and that his recovery was a priority for him going forward. During the meeting
with the disciplinary panel on August 26, 2021, when asked about his memory of events, Dr.
Schnitzlein did not explain or indicate that he remembered any specific details.

The critical questions before the disciplinary panel are Dr. Schnitzlein’s understanding of
the nature and causes of the serious boundary violations that led to the summary suspension of his
medical license, and whether the panel is confident that repeat offenses can be ruled out in the
future. Based on Dr. Schnitzlein’s presentation, the panel is not persuaded that he appreciates or
understands the gravity of his violations, or that he has integrated his professional and ethical
responsibilities as a physician with health conditions that may create risks for his future practice.
Considering his answers, the panel concludes that Dr. Schnitzlein requires further diagnostic
testing and individualized treatment for conditions that remain significantly unresolved. Based on
its expertise, the panel is not reassured that he has acquired any meaningful insight into the possible
motivations for his behavior, or that his rehabilitation process has been sufficiently comprehensive
to ensure that he will safely practice medicine. Nor does the panel have confidence that the public

would be protected if Dr. Schnitzlein is allowed to resume the practice of medicine at this time.
