Written Responses from Dr. Schnitzlein

On September 6, 2019, the Board notified Dr. Schnitzlein about the complaint and ongoing
investigation. The Board requested a written response and issued a subpoena for the patient’s
records. On September 17, 2019, the Board received a handwritten “Statement” from Dr.
Schnitzlein stating that it “Has been a toothpick in my eye” that he “had not been able to
successfully complete an outpatient therapy task with [the patient].” He said he knew how to do it
but he “could not execute.” He did not directly address the complaint but discussed his stressors
and desire to “rebuild [his] integrity.” He enclosed five pages of handwritten notes that he claimed
were the records he maintained for the patient.

On November 20, 2019, Dr. Schnitzlein provided a supplemental written response to the
complaint including statements that: he “categorically denies the allegation that he had a sexual
relationship with [the patient]”; he “reluctantly agreed to let [the patient] check in with him once
a week until she found a therapist and medication provider in the community .. .”; he “now
believes that he was manipulated by [the patient] into a compromising situation which [he] did not
sufficiently recognize at the time.” Dr. Schnitzlein also admitted that ‘‘by the fourth session, in a
mis-guided attempt to build trust, [he] did engage in what he acknowledges was inappropriate
contact with the patient. While they did not engage in sexual intercourse, they did remove most of
their clothes. As soon as [he] realized what he had been led into, [he] ended the session and did
not see the patient again, nor respond to her attempts to contact him. . .”

Interview of Dr. Schnitzlein

The Board interviewed Dr. Schnitzlein under oath on November 25, 2019 in the presence

of his attorney. When asked to describe the nature of his relationship with the patient, Dr.

Schnitzlein said he did not remember anything, and did not remember treating her as a patient “to

 
