:

ORDERED that, after a minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR, and after Dr. Schnitzlein
has complied with all terms and conditions of suspension, and upon a report from MPRP that Dr.
Schnitzlein has complied with all of the requisite referrals and treatment, Dr. Schnitzlein may
submit a written petition to the Board requesting termination of suspension. Dr. Schnitzlein may
be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. After
consideration of the petition, and if the disciplinary panel determines that is safe for Dr. Schnitzlein
to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it deems
appropriate on Dr. Schnitzlein’s return to the practice of medicine, including, but not limited to,
probation and/or continuation of Dr. Schnitzlein’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel
determines that it is not safe for Dr. Schnitzlein to return to practice of medicine, the suspension
shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by
the disciplinary pariel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and conditions
it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Schnitzlein allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Dr. Schnitzlein shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If
the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall
be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and, if the disciplinary panel determines there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Schnitzlein shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that Dr.

Schnitzlein has failed to comply with any term or condition of this Order, the disciplinary panel

12
