Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Robert Schnitzlein, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

imposed by the May 20, 2020, extended the suspension for a minimum of one (1) year,
and required that I comply with certain terms and conditions. A copy of the Order On
Petition to Terminate Suspension of Medical License is attached and incorporated herein
as Attachment 2.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I am no longer able to comply with the requirements of my suspension
due to a medical condition that prevents me from being able to practice medicine at this
time. I acknowledge that the Consent Order and Order On Petition to Terminate
Suspension of Medical License remain and will continue to be valid Final Orders of the
Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to
comply with the conditions of either Order as long as I do not have or possess an active
medical license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, 1 wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
