25, On or about September 17, 2019, the Board received a handwritten “Statement”
from the Respondent on lined paper as well as five pages of handwritten notes on lined paper that
the Respondent claimed were the records he maintained for the Patient.

26. In his “Statement,” the Respondent wrote, among other things, “How was it that I
have not been able to successfully complete an outpatient therapy task with [the Patient] ‘Has been
a toothpick in my eye,’ since it happened. I knew how to do it... but I could not execute.” The
rest of his Statement did not directly address the complaint, but discussed the Respondent’s
stressors and desire to “rebuild [his] integrity[.]”

27, On or about November 20, 2019, the Respondent, through his attorney, provided a
supplemental written response in which he said that he, among other things, “categorically denies
the allegation that he a sexual relationship with [the Patient].” The Respondent “reluctantly agreed
to let [the Patient] check in with him once a week, until she found a therapist and medication
provider in the community .. .” (but see | 14d, supra.). The Respondent also expressed that he
“now believes that he was manipulated by [the Patient] into a compromising situation which he
did not sufficiently recognize at the time.” He admitted, however, that “by the fourth session, ina
mis-guided attempt to build trust, [the Respondent] did engage in what he acknowledges was
inappropriate contact with the patient. While they did not engage in sexual intercourse, they did
remove most of their clothes. As soon as [the Respondent] realized what he had been led into, he
ended the session and did not see the patient again, nor respond to her attempts to contact him”
(but see 4 14 and 21-22, supra.).

G. Interview of the Respondent

28. As part of its investigation, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath on
or about November 25, 2019. The Respondent’s attorney was present.

29. During the interview, the following exchange occurred when Board staff asked the

Respondent about his relationship with the Patient:

10

 
