one point, the Respondent asked ‘the Patient to delete the text messages that they had sent each
other, In another exchange of messages, the Patient wrote that “swimming and a meal” were not
necessary every time they met in person, and that “Low key Late night [sic] sleeping/snuggling is
just fine too.” The Respondent replied, “I have the same assumptions.” The Patient and the
Respondent later exchanged messages setting up times for “a warm bath” and “another evening
bath” together. The Patient last wrote to the Respondent on or about May 13, 2019, The
Respondent wrote “Hi” to the Patient on or about May 20, 2019, but the Patient did not respond.
D. Interview of the Patient

15. __ As part of its investigation, Board staff interviewed the Patient under oath on or
about August 19, 2019.

16, During the interview, the Patient explained that the Respondent was her treating
psychiatrist while she was admitted to the Hospital. The Patient said that, at the time, she felt
“lucky” to have the Respondent as her psychiatrist because, in her view, he “alluded to [the Patient]
as being sort of a special patient.” The Respondent offered to exchange personal cell phone
numbers just before she was discharged from the Hospital so that the Patient could update him on
her status. The Patient agreed because she thought this provided her “a beeline to a doctor who’s
been there for me.”

17, The Patient explained that she first sent a message to the Respondent a few days
after being discharged from the Hospital. She said that the two communicated by text message
every few days. Eventually, according to the Patient, the Respondent asked to see the Patient in
person at the Hospital.

18. The Patient described the first in-person meeting with the Respondent after being
discharged as “a lot about him” and not about the Patient. The Respondent asked to continue that
conversation and suggested a resteurant at a nearby hotel, The Patient agreed, “thinking it would

be nice to have a meal [and] a nice conversation[.]” The Patient learned that the Respondent lived

7
