(b) Dr. Schnitzlein shall comply with a referral for a comprehensive, in-person
neuropsychological evaluation;

(c) Dr. Schnitzlein shall comply with a referral for a psychiatric evaluation and
individual treatment by a board-certified, Maryland-licensed psychiatrist;

(d) Dr. Schnitzlein shall continue in weekly psychotherapy with the treating
psychiatrist during the period of suspension and follow all treatment
recommendations by the treating psychiatrist;

(e) Dr. Schnitzlein shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan entered into with MPRP, and he shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(f) Dr. Schnitzlein shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested
by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order. A
failure to, or withdrawal of consent, is a violation of this Order;

(g) Dr. Schnitzlein shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Schnitzlein’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning Dr. Schnitzlein and to ensure that MPRP
is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Schnitzlein, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol treatment records. A failure to, or
withdrawal of consent, is a violation of this Order; and

(h) Dr. Schnitzlein’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions,
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s), constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is
further
ORDERED that Dr. Schnitzlein shall not apply for early termination of suspension, and it
is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is

further

11

_sogsaes mae a
