b. At approximately 11:32 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the
Patient saying, among other things, “This is a — was a novel, life-
changing experience that I don’t want to remember in a different way.
I want to find a solution, a creative solution, between you and I in a
way that works for both of us and not have it forced upon us through
insurance or legal or destroying the option of me working again .. .
We can do this if you give us a chance... Help. Please help us... .”

c. At approximately 11:35 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the
Patient saying, among other things, “I am wanting to connect with you
because I need to... And I wanted to continue to talk to you. And on
a deep level, I miss you, and I have for a long time.”

d. At approximately 11:37 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the
Patient saying, among other things, “Maybe I’m crazy, but that’s what
feelings are about. I know I was vulnerable, too, and that’s my fault.
And I take responsibility for that and do whatever I need to do to get
stronger . . . I am responsible for my actions in every sense of the
word. And I want to make it right with you. Please, please... .”

e. At approximately 11:42 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the
Patient saying, among other things, “Hey, I’m not the enemy. But if
you go this route I won’t be able to see or talk to you again. And I
can’t deal with that . . . [If] there’s any healing to be had, it’s going to
be between us. And I’m totally willing to do that. All job aside, all

career aside, all everything aside . . . So I — I want to see you really
bad... Help me help you and help us. . . Please don’t beat — beat us
up.”

f. At approximately 11:46 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the
Patient saying, among other things, “Sorry to leave all these

voicemails ... I’m really hoping that I get a chance to talk to you.
No matter what... If there’s some things that you have to do, I want
to understand ... I want to understand about what I don’t know.
Thanks.”

23. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained phone records for the
Patient and the Respondent. These records show that on or about August 26, 2019, the

Respondent called the Patient approximately nine times within 20 minutes and used
