of me working again. .. We can do this if you give us a chance ... Help,
Please help us... .”

c,  Atapproximately 11:35 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient
saying, among other things, “I am wanting to connect with you because I need
to.., And I wanted to continue to talk to you. And on a deep level, I miss
you, and I have for a long time.”

d. At approximately 11:37 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient
saying, among other things, “Maybe I’m crazy, but that’s what feelings are
about. I know I was vulnerable, too, and that’s my fault. And I take
responsibility for that and do whatever I need to do to get stronger... ] am
responsible for my actions in every sense of the word. And I want to make it
right with you. Please, please... .”

e. At approximately 11:42 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient
saying, among other things, “Hey, I’m not the enemy. But if you go this route
I won’t be able to see or talk to you again, And I can’t deal with that . . . [If]
there’s any healing to be had, it’s going to be between us. And I’m totally
willing to do that, All job aside, all career aside, all everything aside .. . So
I —1 want to see you really bad... Help me help you and help us . . . Please
don’t beat ~ beat us up.”

f, | At approximately 11:46 a.m., the Respondent left a voicemail for the Patient

, saying, among other things, “Sorry to leave all these voicemails . . . I’m really
hoping that I get a chance to talk to you. No matter what... If there’s some
things that you have to do, I want to understand ... I want to understand
about what I don’t know. Thanks.”

23. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained phone records for the Patient and
the Respondent. These records show that on or about August 26, 2019, the Respondent called the
Patient approximately nine times within 20 minutes and used “Calling Number Identity
Restriction” so that the Patient could not see the number that was calling her.

F. The Respondent’s Written Responses

24, On or about September 6, 2019, the Board notified the Respondent about the
complaint against him and the Board’s ongoing investigation. The Board requested that the
Respondent provided a written response and issued a subpoena to the Respondent for all records

of the Patient that he had in his possession.
