The ALJ noted that this alone does not establish that he was intoxicated. The Panel agrees that
taking CDS and drinking alcohol does not automatically result in a finding intoxication, but one
nurse who saw him that day testified that she believed that he was intoxicated that day at work.

Second, Nurse 2, who saw him that day, said, “he came stumbling down the hallway
drunk,” he “couldn’t keep his eyes open,” and he was “slurring his words.” She further testified
that he was “reeking of alcohol.” The ALJ, however, did “not give any weight to this statement;
instead, [the ALJ gave] greater weight to her written incident report because it was made closer in
time to when the incident occurred[,]” and if he was truly “‘reeking of alcohol,’ this fact would
have been reported” in her written incident report. Her written incident report said, however, that
she told the Respondent that day that she could “smell alcohol on [his] breath.’ The ALI’s
description of the nurse’s written incident report should not have been a basis for rejecting the
nurse’s testimony. And still another nurse told Nurse 2 that the Respondent was “not right,” and
that “he’s on something.” After one procedure, the Respondent was told he could not continue
working, and the remaining patient appointments were cancelled.

Third, and most significantly, putting aside for now his conduct at work on February 17,
2020, the ALJ relied too heavily on the Respondent’s statements regarding his alcohol intake.
Based upon his extensive alcohol use, taking place over at least nine years, it is implausible that
he was only intoxicated on only three occasions during those nine years and that those three
occasions only happened to occur when reported by a police officer, a physician at an ER, and the
people who worked with him. The ALJ only found occasions of intoxication when there was
extensively documented, dispositive proof of his intoxication. The Panel instead infers from the
overwhelming evidence of his profound abuse of alcohol over at least nine years that he violated

Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(7) based upon his habitual intoxication. In addition to the four specific
