16. During the interview, the Respondent discussed her medical and medication
history.2_ When Board staff asked the Respondent to address her practice of initiating
discussions with patients on her views of religious doctrine, she stated that she tells her
patients to pray to Jesus. After Board staff concluded recording the interview, the
Respondent continued to make several comments about religious subjects, including that
she “loves God " and “loves Jesus”.

17. About two hours after concluding the interview, the Respondent returned to
the Board’s offices and stated that she had lost her cell phone. Board staff helped the
Respondent look for the cell phone but could not find it. While standing near the
building elevators, the Respondent again told Board staff that she “loves God” and hopes
that was made clear no matter what she said during the interview. In response to Board
staff stating that they would inform the Respondent if they found her cell phone, the
Respondent stated, “God is magnificent” and to always remember that.

Referral for evaluation and findings

18. As part of the Board’s investigation, the Board, pursuant to Health Occ. §

14-402(a),‘ referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an

independent evaluation to determine her present competency to practice medicine.

3 For confidentiality and/or privacy reasons, the specific information the Respondent disclosed will not be
stated in this document. Panel B was aware of this information at the time it voted to summarily suspend
the Respondent’s medical license.

4 Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure or in investigating an
allegation brought against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board
under this title, the Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board or a
disciplinary panel on its own initiative may direct, the licensed physician or any allied health professional
to an appropriate examination.

6
