 

primary care physician. | find the Respondent’s dential about making the January 22, 2014 call to
Patient A beyond belief. : ,

It wos s audit of patient records that revealed the Respondent had accessed an
additional fifty-two patient records without authorization. Itis understandable, given the extent of
the confidentiality breaches, hot did not initially provide the Respondent with the names,
other than those of Patients A and B, corresponding to the records the Respondent accessed for no

legitimate reason. However, I note that the Respondent, as part of this proceeding, was not denied
a request for the names of the patients. There is no indication he subpoenaed or requested the
information from the State in any way as this matter was pending before the OAH. His defense
regarding the fifty-two other patients was that that he did not do anything improper in accessing the
medical records identified in these cases. He presented no documentation to support that defense.

In summary, I find that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine in violation of section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article by
accessing medical records without authorization and by using information obtained to harass and
intimidate a patient and his wife. He also violated QP policy and the AMA guidelines
noted above. ,

Iv. Sanction

 

In this case, the State is seeking to impose a one-year suspension of the Respondent’s
medical license, and a requirement that he be referred by the Board for a general evaluation by
the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program, which is administered through The Maryland
State Medical Society (MedChi), and the Board. Such an order would include the requirement
that the Respondent be mandated to attend and abide by all of the measures recommended. The
State additionally requested that I recommend that after the Respondent’s suspension, he remain
on probation for three years, be supervised in order to determine whether his professional

34
