 

593, cert. denied, $43 U.S. 862 (2004). The Maryland Court of Appeals has consistently expanded
the definition of “in the practice of medicine” to include conduct such as sexual misconduct by
physicians with patients or hospital employees, false statements made by physicians during hospital
peer review investigations, Board investigations and disciplinary proceedings, and false statements —
made on physician license renewal applications. The Court has considered whether the conduct
“occurred while the physician was performing a task integral to his or her medical practice,”
Maryland Bd. of. Physician Quality Assurance v. Banks, 354 Md. 59, 74 (1991), and whether the
‘conduct was “sufficiently intertwined with patient care.” Kim v. Maryland State Bd. Of. Physicians, ~
423 Md. 523 (2011).

The Board referred to the federal HIPAA’ statute that provides for the privacy of health
information. Gay: a “covered entity” under HIPAA. HIPAA requires ey] to protect
the privacy and security of health information and must provide individuals with certain tights
‘with respect to their health information, GREP ivteins a policy to ensure compliance with
HIPAA. aa Policy and Procedure Manual also provides mandatory HIPAA training at
the time of hire and on an annual basis for all employees and independent contractors.

American Medical Association (AMA) Opinion 7.025-Records of Physicians: Access by
’ Non-Treating Medical Staff provides:

Physicians who use or receive information from medical records share in the

responsibility for preserving patient confidentiality and should play an integral

role in the designing of confidentiality safeguards in healthcare institutions,

Physicians have a responsibility to be aware of the appropriate guidelines in their

healthcare institution, as well as the applicable federal and state laws.

Informal case consultations that involve the disclosure of detailed medical

information are appropriate in the absence of consent only if the patient cannot be
identified from the information.

_

° HIPAA is an acronym for the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. No.
104-191, 110 Stat. 2021 (codified as amended in scattered titles of the U.S.C.). It was enacted to safeguard the
privacy of individually-identifiable health information, .

15
