 

I have considered the testimony of the Respondent’s patients and colleagues, who spoke
of his honesty, integrity and professionalism. I do not doubt the sincerity and good intentions of
_ those witnesses who hold the Respondent in high regard. More significantly, however, I have
focused on the volume of evidence that establishes that the Respondent accessed numerous
medical records without authoridation and his i improper communication with Patient A and the
impact of his actions on others, .

The Respondent is still currently engaged in the clinical practice of medicine in his
private medical practice, although (ED »=s suspended his medical privileges there.

The Regulations require me to consider all of this disparate information, including the
facts of this case and all mitigating and aggravating factors, in order to recommend a fair and
effective sanction. In this Proposed Decision, I have concluded that the State has proven by a
preponderance of the evidence a pattern of privacy violations by the Respondent that constituted _
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of the Act. The Respondent’s .
explanations fly in the face of logic and of the considerable weight of the evidence.

I recommend that the Respondent be suspended from the practice of medicine for one
year, followed by three years of probation, with a referral to the Maryland Professional -

- Rehabilitation Program for a general evaluation, with any attendant recommendations, and a
requirement to attend any applicable course in medical ethics the Board may inipose. I further
recommend that the Respondent be required to pay a fine of $30,000.00.

PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

 

Based on the foregoing Proposed Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter
of law that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of the Medical Practice Act. Md. Code Ann, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi) (2014);
Finucan v..Maryland Ba. of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Ma. 577, cert. denied 543 US. 862

40.
