 

ofa rapid response, wrote a progress note or there was documentation that the Purple Team
physician was that patient’s primary care physician. Next, us > excluded records of
patients where the Emergency Department practitioner attempted to or actually contacted a Purple
Team physician.. Ms. poe went on to explain that patient records were also excluded from
consideration when a physician placed an order in the Emergency Department for any Purple Team
_-physician to consult on an Emergency Department patient’s case, even if that consult was not
performed by that Purple Team physician. The last exclusion applied to the audit was the situation
where any Purple Team physician’s name, phone number or office or clinic address was documented
in the miscellaneous section of the Emergency Department record. The last exclusion was applied
because a patient may have been referred to the Respondent and he would have had a legitimate
reason to look at the record.

Ms Gp referred to her audit report and testified that the audit revealed that the
Respondent accessed fifty-four patient accounts during the period in question. Of the fifty-four
patient accounts accessed, nineteen were those of patients who died in the Emergency Department,
five who died during hospitalization and two records were for those of infants. Six of the records
were accessed multiple times. There was no evidence the Respondent had been caring for any of the
patients whose record he accessed, with the exception of Patient B. For the patients who had died
during hospitalization, the Respondent was not a physician on the case and had not been consulted.
As for the infant charts, Ms. noted that the Respondent does not have privileges for
pediatric care. Ms. ED <0 pointed out, that on December 25 and 31, 2013 and January 1,
2014, the Respondent accessed records of the nineteen patients who died in the Emergency
Department from February 2013 to September 2013. She found it odd that a physician would have a
need to access medical records for patients who died up to ten months prior. In addition, in those
death cases, Ms. QP cntiones that the records do not show that the Respondent contacted the

24
