 

medical record showed that the Respondent was not listed as the attending, admitting, referring or
consulting physician for Patient A. The record further showed that the Respondent accessed the
patient’s demographic information. Ms also referred to Ms, QIN s findings,
which will be discussed below, that show the Respondent accessed medical records in a number of
instances where the patients were not in his immediate care or in the care of the Purple Team.

To discuss the audit off ecticnts’ records, the State presented the testimony of
Deborah {NP RN., who worked af I in early 2014 as the Physician Quality Control
Coordinator. Ms. ap is now employed ing: IT Department as a Clinical Systems
Analyst. In her former position, Ms, GBP estifiea that she produced reports regarding medical
records, as they relate to the areas of cote measures (reviewing open charts for sufficient
documentation), finance, and physician and nursing compliance. Ms. GaP is intimately
familiar with the details a: electronic medical records.

Ms. GP es tbat while she was serving in her former position in January 2014,

GBP 2x2¢ement asked her to review electronic medical records and determine when a
member of the Purple Team accessed an electronic record and identify whether the record was
accessed for that Team member’s actual patient
/ Ms. BED oxpiainea the methodology she used in poring over 100 pages of reports
generated by her audit inquiry for the period from November 1, 2013 to January 8, 2014. As Ms.
QED siceres the Purple Team physicians who accessed records, her review revealed that the
Respondent was the only Purple Team physician who had accessed charts not assigned to him.
In conducting the audit, wii described how she applied certain exclusion criteria
to eliminate from consideration all medical records the Respondent could possibly have had a
legitimate reason to access. wo pointed out how she excluded from consideration records
for a patient when any Purple Team physician was called or contacted or placed an order as a result

23
