 

transition from a small family-owned hospital to a corporate entity. He also explained how he was
instrumental in forming the Purple Team P= his role as a hospitalist there.

The Respondent noted that he has not encountered any problems while onrking at three
other hospitals in the region. He made a point of stating that lie understands the importance of
patient confidentiality. He noted that in his private practice he maintains a separate room for
patients’ charts. -

In explaining that (wos in transition to an electronic medical records system during
the period covered by the audit, November 1, 2013 through January 8, 2014, he was able to log into
the old and the new systems.’ He pointed out that he saw some patients he did not recognize on a list
of patients under his care. The Respondent pointed out that he needed to research those names in

eg s electronic patient records.

Regarding the death records, the Respondent asserted that a Dr. Sandrafiypeave him the
name of a patient who came to GF c24-cn-aniva (DOA) and that it was the Respondent’s
responsibility as the Purple Team Physician on call to sign the death certificate. He denied accessing
any records associated with patient deaths in the emergency room or during hospitalization that he
had no reason to access, The Respondent explained that the Death Log kept in the Emergency
Department only has patient numbers and he had to access the electronic record to locate the
decedent by name. At some point in the proceedings, the Respondent also indicated that he accessed
the record of a deceased patient in response to a telephone inquiry from the Medical Examiner.

With respect to patients who were not DOA and who did not expire in the hospital, the.
Respondent went on to describe that sometimes a patient’s name that he does not recognize will
appear on his list of patients. In those cases, he will access the electronic record and discover only
about fifty percent of the time that the patient is actually under his care. He noted that sometimes
the patient will be connected to another colleague or is now under the care of another doctor.

26
