 

Dr. Abassi was initially licensed to practice medicine in Maryland in 2006 and has
continuously renewed his license. He specializes in internal medicine. During the period at
issue, he practiced as a hospitalist at a Hospital in Maryland (the “Hospital”).

On October 24, 2013, the Hospital’s Medical Executive Committee decided that a
Focused Professional Practice Evaluation (“FPPE”), which would include a chart review, would
be conducted to investigate complaints against Dr. Abassi, which mostly concerned standard of
care concerns, such as a failure to perform evaluations in a timely manner.” One of the members
of the Medical Executive Committee was Physician 1, a surgeon.

On November 21, 2013, after reviewing the FPPE findings, the Hospital’s Medical
Executive Committee recommended the continuation of the FPPE, a further chart review, a
reduced caseload for Dr. Abassi, and other remedial measures.

While the FPPE was being conducted, Dr. Abassi began accessing confidential medical
files through the Hospital’s computerized electronic records system of patients with whom Dr.
Abassi had no involvement and whose records he had no legitimate reason for assessing.
Believing that the FPPE was being used unfairly against him, Dr. Abassi was attempting to find
cases of medical errors by others with which he planned to use to retaliate for the FPPE. One
physician Dr. Abassi targeted was Physician 1.

One of the electronic patient files Dr. Abassi improperly accessed concerned Patient A.
Physician 1 performed surgery on Patient A in 2011, from which Patient A suffered

complications. The complications from the surgery were fully repaired in 2012, and Patient A

 

incorporated by reference into the body of this document. The ALJ’s Proposed Decision is
attached as Exhibit 1.

> The Hospital’s Quality, Safety and Professional Affairs Committee also approved the FPPE.

> Neither the conclusion of law nor the sanction in this final decision and order is based upon
any medical care or conduct that was investigated in the October/November 2013 FPPE.

2
