 

accept Dr. Abassi’s testimony.° Except as otherwise specifically noted, the Panel adopts the
ALJ’s credibility determinations. Dr. Abassi’s exception is denied.
CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based upon the findings of fact, Board Disciplinary Panel A concludes that Dr. Abassi is
guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of
the Health Occupations Article.

SANCTION

The ALJ recommended a one-year suspension followed by three years of probation,
enrollment in MPRP, a $30,000 fine, and an ethics course. Dr. Abassi did not take exception to
the ALJ’s recommended sanction, although, during the exceptions hearing before the Panel, Dr.
Abassi’s counsel did ask that Dr. Abassi’s license not be suspended.

Protecting the confidentiality of patients’ records is a responsibility the Panel takes
extraordinarily seriously. Dr. Abassi showed no regard for patient confidentiality in this case.
Even more disturbing, however, are Dr. Abassi’s intentions and his use of the confidential
information. The evidence indicates that Dr. Abassi accessed the records to try to uncover
information to use in retaliation for the FPPE. Dr. Abassi used the improperly attained
confidential information to contact a former patient of the Hospital, a patient with whom Dr.
Abassi had no previous relationship. Dr. Abassi falsely told the patient that he was part of a
hospital committee conducting a review of another physician at the Hospital. Dr. Abassi’s false
representation prompted the patient to provide Dr. Abassi with even more information about his
6 In finding Dr. Abassi not credible, the ALJ partly relied upon Dr. Abassi’s decision to not call
the physician he claims asked him to complete the death certificate as a witness. (ALJ’s
Proposed Decision at 31, 39.) The Panel does not accept this reasoning by the ALJ. The Panel
does not find credible Dr. Abassi’s testimony concerning the alleged death certificate, but the

panel does so without taking as a negative inference the fact that Dr. Abassi did not call a
witness to corroborate his testimony.
