 

after the Respondent accessed her husband’s record, the latter of which the Respondent only
states may have happened. The audit of hospital records confirms that the Respondent accessed
Patient A’s confidential medical record. ,

{ find the accounts of Patient A and his wife to be very credible. I found their laughter to
be very telling and appropriate when testifying in response to the Respondent’s claim that Patient
A ealled his office because he was looking for a surgeon to repair his hernia. Both Patient A and
his wife testified that Patient A’s hernia had been successfully repaired in 2012 and he bad no
need for a surgeon in January 2014. It is inconceivable to me that Patient A and his wife would
give much of their time in providing written statements, subjecting themselves to numerous.
interviews by GR and the Board, missing work, and appearing at hearings in order to
fabricate a story against a man who is a total stranger to them. The concept that they would do
all of this is utterly ridiculous. Patient A and his wife have nothing to gain in making the ©
allegations they have consistently and steadfastly asserted since bringing the Respondent’s
actions to fa: attention. On the other hand, I note that the Respondent’s accounts of what
occurred have been both inconsistent and illogical. I addressed the logic issue above. As far as
the Respondent’s inconsistency, he stated that he did not access Patient A’s medical record, but
subsequently at this hearing he acknowledged it is possible that he did.

The Respondent also denies that he represented that he was part of aR view
committee, that he had a discussion with Patient A about assisting him in obtaining legal
representation, or that he spoke disparagingly of Dr. Se Similarly, and not very credibly, the
Respondent denied that he telephoned Patient A several times on January 22, 2014 in an aggressive
attempt to encourage Patient A to have his wife misrepresent to inquiring personnel that »

she initiated contact with the Respondent because she was assisting her husband in obtaining a

33
