 

Patient A said that, after the telephone conversation with the Respondent, he thought it ©
highly irregular for a physician to contact him in that fashion, discuss his medical history, speak
disparagingly about another doctor’s work and further offer to refer his case to a “legal team” that
would provide him with papers to sign. Patient A noted that he began feeling more and more
uncomfortable about his exchange with the Respondent, which prompted Patient A to telephone

ee and inform someone there about the unsolicited call from the Respondent.

. On January 7, 2014, upon speaking to someone in th edical Affairs Office,
Patient A learned that the Respondent had been subject to recent disciplinary action at Gp:
was not a member of ea review board. Patient A noted that he described the telephone
conversation he had with the Respondent and answered numerous questions fom ap
management, - . :

Patient A went on to explain another disturbing telephorie encounter he had with the
Respondent, who telephoned him on January 22, 2014 and communicated that he was aware that
Patient A had provided ‘ormation about their earlier conversation. The Respondent
advised Patient A that the hospital was lying to Patient A. Patient A remembered the Respondent
saying that he was being investigated. He noted that the Respondent also said that he was only
trying to prevent DR performing bad surgeries.” The Respondent also requested the
Patient to have his wife ol > that she sought him out as a primary care physician for
Patient A and that would provide justification for the Respondent to have accessed the Patient’s
medical records. Patient A recalled that he refused the Respondent's persistent request and hung
up on him. Patient A then reported the January 22, 2014 conversation ——-

Patient A noted that the unsolicited and unauthorized attention from the Respondent has
caused him stress, aggravation, concern about retaliation by the Respondent, and a serious concern
about who has access to his medical records. He.is concerned that a stranger has a lot of information

19
