 

and January 8, 2014, Dr. Abassi accessed the electronic records of 53 patients with whom he had
no involvement and whose records he had no legitimate justification for accessing.

On January 22, 2014, Dr. Abassi called Patient A, and they spoke again. Dr. Abassi told
Patient A that he knew Patient A notified the Hospital of their previous conversation, that the
Hospital was trying to take away Dr. Abassi’s license, and that the Hospital prohibited Dr.
Abassi from returning to the Hospital. Dr. Abassi asked Patient A to tell the Hospital that either
he (Patient A) or his wife had asked Dr. Abassi to become Patient A’s primary care physician.
Patient A told Dr. Abassi that he did not want to speak with him anymore and hung up.

Patient A had never asked Dr. Abassi to become his primary care physician nor did he
ever seek any medical care from Dr. Abassi. Patient A and his wife were satisfied with their own
primary care physician, who had been treating them for over 20 years. Further, by 2014, Patient
A did not need any treatment for any condition or complication related to his surgery with
Physician 1 in 2011.°

DR. ABSSI’S EXCEPTION
Dr. Abassi does not dispute that it is unprofessional conduct for a physician to access
confidential medical records without a legitimate justification, nor does Dr. Abassi dispute that
the conduct at issue in this case was “in the practice of medicine.” Dr. Abassi only challenges

the ALJ’s credibility determinations.

“ The Hospital’s audit initially found that Dr. Abassi had illegitimately accessed 54 patient files,
but the Hospital ultimately lowered that number by one to 53, because Dr. Abassi had previously
treated one of the 54 patients (Patient B). Likewise, the Panel finds that Dr. Abassi accessed the
53 confidential patient files without a legitimate justification, with Patient B’s file not being
included in the 53 illegitimately accessed files.

> In his interview with the Board’s investigator, Dr. Abassi said that Patient A told him that he
was “looking for someone to help him fix an abdominal hernia.”

4
