 

Only physicians or other healthcare professionals who are involved in managing
the patient, including providing consultation, therapeutic, or diagnostic services,
may access the patient's confidential medical information. All others must obtain
explicit consent to access the information. Monitoring user access to electronic or
written medical information is an appropriate and desirable means for detecting
breaches of confidentiality. Physicians should encourage the development and
use of such monitoring systems. ,

This opinion focuses on the issue of access to medical records by medical staff
not involved in the treatment or diagnosis of patients. It does not address the need
to access medical records for clinical research, epidemiological research, quality
assurance, or administrative purposes.

State’s Exhibit #2 /
The AMA Principles of Medical Ethics provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
Preamble

The medical profession has long subscribed to a body of ethical statements
developed primarily for the benefit of the patient. As a member of this profession, a
physician must recognize responsibility to patients first and foremost, as well as to
society, to other health professionals, and to self. ‘The following Principles adopted
by the American Medical association are not laws, but standards of conduct which
define the essentials of honorable behavior for the physician.

1° Aphysician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical care, with
compassion and respect for human dignity and rights.

iL. A physician shall uphold the standards of professionalism, be honest in all
professional transactions, and strive to report physicians deficient in
character or competence, or engaging in fraud or deception, to appropriate
entities. .

I. A pbysician shall respect the law and also recognize a responsibility to seek
changes in those requirements which are contrary to the best interests of the

" patient. : :

IV.  Aphysician shall respect the.rights of patients, colleagues, and other health |

professionals, and shall safeguard patient confidences and privacy within the
constraints of the law. oo

State’s Exhibit #1

16
