 

The State accurately pointed out that the Respondent could have subpoenaed MD
records for the patients at issue as part of his defense and then presented records from his
medical office to show that he had a clinical relationship with them. The Respondent’s defense
that he had such a clinical relationship with the patients in the other category is unsupported by
any evidence other than his word, which for reasons Iwill state below, is very questionable.

The other category of patient records the Respondent accessed is emergency room deaths
and infants. His only explanation for combing through the records of patients who died in the
emergency room is that a Dr, GR called him sometime during the Christmas week of
2013 and asked him to look up a death record ofa patient who recently died in order to provide
information for a death certificate. The Respondent did not present Dr. GR a witness to
corroborate that claim. He was also unable to provide the name of the decedent. Looking at the
listing of decedents from the emergency room, the most recent date of death was September 11,
2013, which rendered the Respondent’s explanation contradictory and illogical. The Respondent -
also had no valid explanation for why he looked up the charts of the infants.

The Respondent knew from his work | that he had no right to access non-patient’s
records and, according to Dr. ee the Respondent had no right to access the records of his
own patients without justification.

The testimony of Ms ED. as discussed above, clearly sets out the methodology she
utilized in identifying patient records the Respondent accessed without justification. Ms. ad
provided a detailed description of the exclusion criteria she utilized as part of the process of
identifying those medical records that the Respondent accessed with justification. ‘Not only did

that analysis reveal that the Respondent accessed mumnerous medical records without justification,

_ italso showed that he was the only Purple Team physician who did so. The audit, as explained by

31
