 

2. Dr. Abassi shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested or
required by the Board and MPRP. Dr. Abassi shall sign the release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any and all
MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. Dr. Abassi shall also sign any written
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to exchange information regarding Dr. Abassi with
agents of MPRP (evaluators and treatment providers referred to by MPRP for Dr. Abassi);

3. Prior to the completion of probation,’ Dr. Abassi shall pay a civil fine in the
amount of $30,000 by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland Board
of Physicians, P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297;

4. Dr. Abassi shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 14-101—14-702, and all laws and regulations governing the practice of medicine
in Maryland;

5. After three years of probation, Dr. Abassi may submit a written petition to the
Board requesting termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation
may be terminated through an order of the Board or Panel A. Dr. Abassi may be required to
appear before the Board or Panel A to discuss his petition for termination of probation. The
Board or Panel A will grant the petition to terminate probation if Dr. Abassi has complied with
all of the probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending complaints related to the
charges; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Board or Panel A determines, after notice and an opportunity for a
hearing before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings if there is
a genuine dispute as to a material fact or a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel A if

8 Dr. Abassi may pay the fine in total or pay a portion of the fine during the suspension period. In
either event, the fine must be paid in full before to the termination of probation.

11
