 

records. Dr. @j§gMMimoted that he has not seen such evidence of any doctor/patient relationships
in the tecords accessed and, given the categories of patients whose records the Respondent had
accessed, it would be hard to believe that they sought care from the Respondent’s office.. For
example, the Respondent accessed numerous records of patients who arrived in the Emergency
Department and died immediately or shortly thereafter and could not have sought care in his office. .
a7 pointed out that there were also several infants and children whose records were
accessed and, therefore, could not have sought care in the Respondent’s office, as the Respondent is
not a pediatrician. As for the Respondent’s assertion that he had accessed records of deceased
patients because the Medical Examiner had called him about those patients, Dr. found it
extremely improbable that the Medical Examiner would be making such an inquiry for a patient
who had died months before the Respondent accessed that person’s electronic medical record. —
Mr. QED Vice President of IT at GP esis about the different forms of
recordkeeping at MedSiar, including paper records and the more recent electronic medical records.
He explained that ae went to a paperless system in February 2013 called the McKesson
’ Horizon View System. ‘Mr. GED ines that, with the advent of HIPAA in 1996, the
entire industry was required to secure the paper and electronic records. Rules and regulations
regarding access were put in place, in addition to an auidit trail to show who accessed each electronic
file. Tracker systems are able to show which user had access to which patient records.
we noted that, inamemo dated January 8, 2014, Dr. aaa then .
Associate Vice President of Medical Affairs at = requested IT to produce a report showing
all accounts where the Respondent accessed records, eliminating situations where a member of the
Purple Team was not the attending physician of record. The witness said that one thing the audit
revealed is that the Respondent accessed Patient A’s medical record on January 3, 2014. The

22
