 

Ms produced an electronic “fingerprint” of the Respondent as he accessed records
without authorization. /

One of the most troubling aspects of this case is the Respondent’s unauthorized accessing
of medical records, including those of Patient A, and the outrageous behavior the Respondent
exhibited when be contacted him. The Respondent only admits that it is possible that he
accessed Patient A’s medical record | but he denies that he contacted Patient A, other

. than to respond to Patient A’s call to his medical office, during which Patient A was ostensibly

. inquiring about seeking a surgeon to repair his hernia. The Respondent’s responses to Patient
A’s account of his interaction with the Respondent, who was a total stranger to Patient A before —
the Respondent telephoned Patient A’s homé, are illogical, implausible and incredible.

The Respondent’s suggestion that a woman representing Patient A telephoned his office
looking for a physician was absurd to Patient A and his wife because they have an internist they
are satisfied with and who has been treating them for over twenty years. As part of her job,
Patient A’s wife is familiar with many of the physicians in the county. Even if she had been
looking for a new physician, Patient’s A’s wife testified that she knows there are “plenty of
really great doctors” in GER county and she would not have to go outside fa County

to find one. . .

Jt ig no coincidence that the Respondent accessed Patient A’s medical records on the
afternoon of January 3, 2014, which preceded the attempted calls he made to Patient A’s home.
The Respondent clearly had been searching Patient A’s medical records, most likely for the
purpose of trying to gain information about hospital officials or hospital improprieties, likely in
retaliation for the disciplinary action he faced in November 2013. I would have to believe thata
miraculous coincidence occurred if I accepted the notion that Patient A’s wife just happened to
call the Respondent’s office unsolicited on January 3, 2014, only about an hour and one-half

32
