 

At the OAH hearing, Dr. Abassi testified that (1) he did not initiate the contact with
Patient A or his wife; (2) he did not access Patient A’s electronic medical file (or, if he did, he
did so unintentionally); and (3) his reasons for accessing the 52 other electronic patient files at
issue were legitimate. The ALJ did not find Dr. Abassi credible, finding his testimony

D0 cee

“inconsistent,” “illogical,

99 cee

implausible” and “incredible.” Conversely, the ALJ found Patient A
and his wife “very credible.’ The ALJ focused on the discrepancies between Dr. Abassi’s
versions of events and the hospital records and on the implausibility that Patient A would initiate
contact with Dr. Abassi. Eight witnesses (patients and colleagues) vouched for Dr. Abassi’s
professionalism and integrity. The ALJ found they were sincere and well-intentioned but that
their high regard for Dr. Abassi was insufficient to overcome the compelling evidence against
him.

Dr. Abassi argues the ALJ erred in accepting the testimony of Patient A and Patient A’s
wife and by rejecting his (Dr. Abassi’s) testimony. Dr. Abassi mainly relies upon the testimony
of the eight character witnesses he presented.

The State argues that the Panel should accept the ALJ’s credibility determinations,
relying upon the fact that the ALJ observed the witnesses testify. The State also argues that Dr.
Abassi’s testimony was inconsistent, contradicted by the hospital’s records, and implausible.

In order to assess the credibility of the witnesses, it is necessary to compare the testimony
of the witnesses with the Hospital’s records. The Hospital’s computer system recorded that, on
January 3, 2014, at “14:46:09” (2:46 p.m.), Dr. Abassi accessed Patient A’s electronic file. (Joint
Exhibits 10-18A and 10-18E.) According to Patient A’s wife, on that same day, January 3, 2014,
she returned home from work at approximately 4:10 p.m. Upon returning home, she saw that

someone had called her home phone while she was out and that the caller’s telephone number
