 

Patient or that Patient A called the Respondent because he was looking for a surgeon, Patient A’s
wife found the concept ridiculous given that her husband was not in need of surgery and was
satisfied with his primary care physician. The witness laughed at the absurdity of the suggestion
that she initiated contact with the Respondent for the purpose he claimed.

Patient A testified about receiving the message from his wife about the Respondent’s

- telephone call to their home and attempting to call the number that he found on his caller ID.
Instead of reaching someone, Patient A received a fax machine-type tone. Patient A then looked up
the Respondent on the internet and called his medical practice to find out why the Respondent had
called. The office was closed. On January 6, 2014, Patient A was finally able to speak to alive
person. He explained that he told the person that he was returning the Respondent’s’call. Patient A
testified that at no time did he state to the person answering the phone or to the Respondent that he
was looking for a surgeon or a primary care physician. .

Patient A recalled that the Respondent returned his call about 5:00 p.m. on January 6, 2014,
and introduced himself as a member of a review board a p. ’ Patient A explained that the
Respondent informed him that he had reviewed his medical record p< seemed to know
about his 2011 surgery in detail. During the conversation, the Respondent asked Patient Aifhe was
aware of the fact that Dr. ee the surgeon who operated on Patient A in 2011, nicked one of his
arteries during surgery and further suggested that Patient A may be entitled to compensation for the
surgeon’s error. Patient A noted that, after further questioning by the Respondent about his health,
he disclosed to the Respondent that he had an incisional hernia arising out of his 2011 surgery. He
told the Respondent the hernia was subsequently repaired in a successful surgery in 2012. Patient A

also emphasized that he never gave the Respondent, whom he did not know, permission to access

- his medical record.

18
