 

I. The State’s Case

The State notes that the Board’s disciplinary action is based upon its function and
responsibility to ensure that physicians act in a professional manner in the practice of medicine.
The State asserts that one of the highest obligations a physician has is protecting and maintaining

‘ patient confidentiality. In addition, it points out that the government has put in place rules and
regulations to ensure patient confidentiality. Pursuant to the federal HIPAA statute, hospitals have-
promulgated their own bylaws and codes of conduct that require its physicians to maintain patient
confidentiality. The conduct at issue here, however, deals with a physician’s duty to protect the
privacy of persons who were not his patients. The persons at issue here were patients of MedStar, .
just not the Respondent’s patients.

At the heart of the State’s case is the Respondent’s alleged access to non-patients’ private
medical records, which it points out that physicians are prohibited from accessing when they do not
have a professional relationship with that individual, a non-patient. The State alleges that the
Respondent inappropriately accessed the records of numerous non-patients, thereby violating
standards of professional ethics.

A. Patient A and his Spouse

The State presented the testimony of Patient A and his wife to describe the Respondent's
unwanted intrusion into their lives. Prior to the Respondent contacting Patient A and his wife,
neither of them had any puior relationship with him. They were never his patients nor had they ever

, contacted him to provide them with medical care. . /

Patient A’s wife testified regarding a call she received on January 3, 2014 from a number

she did not identify. When she responded to the call, the caller identified himself as the Respondent
and informed her he was trying to reach “[Patient A].” In replying to the notion that the Patient’s
wife ever attempted. to contact the Respondent because she was looking fora physician for the

17
