 

private practice. Dr GP acknowledged that he would have a chart to prove that the
patient was, in fact, his.
“I. Dia the Respondent Engage in Unprofesinal Conduct inthe Practice of Medicine?

The Respondent does not dispute that it is well established that.a physician who accesses
medical records ‘which he has no justification to access is engaging in unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine. “The evidence clearly establishes that the Respondent, without justification,
accessed a series oD v2ticnts medical records from November 1, 2013 to January 8, 2014,
resulting inf sree his privileges there.

‘What serves as a backdrop for the relevant sequence of events is the Respondent’s
involvement in a patient’s care in August 2013, which led 7d subjecting the Respondent to
an FPPE, a focused evaluation, in early November 2013. The Respondent believes the process of
the review and corrective action taken against him were patently unfair. One of the members of

the GD: <view committee that recommended disciplinary action against the Respondent
arising out of the August 2013 patient care incident was Dr. a a surgeon 7
After the action was taken against the Respondent > in November 2013, the Respondent
began looking at medical records, without justification, for his own purposes.

Although there weré a whole series fa patients for which the Respondent had no
justification to antes their medical records, it is helpful to look at two separate groups of
records. One involves emergency room deaths and infants, and the other covers other patients.

The Respondent was unable to refute the State’s evidence that he accessed the records of
those in the “other” category because he claims he was denied access to those records and had no
idea who those patients are. He argued that, if he could have leamed the identity of the patients,

he could have shown that he had a clinical/office relationship with those patients by producing
his private medical office charts for those patients.

30
