considered the serious indicators that his patients were tampering with the urine samples. The
Respondent prescribed high doses of opioids with high potential for adverse reactions and
diversion, without taking these crucial concerns into account. Most of the prescriptions were also
not supported with medical reasoning, documentation, or evaluation. Without question, the
Respondent prescribed CDS for illegitimate medical purposes.

The Respondent took exception to paragraph 15 of the ALJ’s proposed Findings of Fact,
which states, in pertinent part, “The Respondent did not monitor any of the twenty patients for
their use of CDS by conducting laboratory testing for CDS .. . On rare occasions when urine tests
were done, test results revealed no CDS in the fluid of patients to whom CDS were prescribed.”
The Respondent states that he “did laboratory tests to monitor CDS .. . and the dates and results
of these tests are confirmed in the patients’ medical records.” The Respondent simply cites in
general to all the medical records, providing no indication that the testing was not, as the ALJ
found, “[o]n rare occasions.” While drug testing was performed on rare occasions, the number of
occasions was wholly insufficient for effectively monitoring his patients. The Panel, however,
does feel, as does the Respondent, that “no monitoring” may have been imprecise. The Panel
therefore revises the finding to state that the monitoring was inadequate. (Finding of Fact 12 in
this decision.) The Respondent did order toxicology screening, which is part of monitoring, but
the Respondent required the screening on an inadequate number of occasions and essentially
disregarded the results.

The Respondent also took exception to the ALJ’s proposed Finding of Fact 40, which
states, “Many of the patients for whom the Respondent prescribed CDS had insurance that would
have covered the cost of the clinic visit, but the Respondent accepted cash payment rather than

accepting insurance coverage payment.” The Respondent contends that the Respondent explained
