compliance was not addressed by modifying the treatment plans, decreasing dosages,
discontinuing medications, or discharging the patients from his practice.

Further, as the ALJ correctly specified, the CDS prescriptions were made mostly with no
evaluation, no treatment plan, no attempts at low-dose prescription to test therapeutic effectiveness
before increasing the dose to greater that CDC guidelines, and no prescription for Narcan or
another drug to counteract an overdose. The Panel accepts these findings by the ALJ.

It appears the Respondent took exception to the ALJ’s conclusion of a violation of Health
Oce. § 14-404(a)(4) by contesting the ALJ’s proposed finding of fact 18, which states, “The
Respondent issued prescriptions for opioids to patients to whom he had also prescribed sedatives,
muscle relaxers and benzodiazepines. Sedatives, muscle relaxers and benzodiazepines, taken in
combination with opioids, increases the risk of adverse consequences from use of the opioids.”
The Respondent argues, “Benzodiazepines are obviously indicated in patients with anxiety in
combination with chronic pain.” The Respondent asserts that he “prescribed low dose of
Benzodiazepines while informing patients about the risks associated with opioid side effects.” The
Respondent’s exception does not cite to the record showing the instances in which he prescribed
low doses of benzodiazepines for anxiety patients also taking opioids and where the patients were
also informed of the risks. However, because of the overwhelming evidence supporting the
conclusion that the Respondent is professionally incompetent, even without his prescribing opioids
concurrently with benzodiazepines, the Panel, in its discretion, is not basing its finding of a
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4) upon these concurrent prescriptions.

The Respondent also took exception to the ALJ’s proposed finding of fact 20, which states,
“There is no record the Respondent issued prescription for low-dose CDS to any patient to

determine a therapeutic level for the medicine. Instead, the Respondent immediately and

12
