 

Testimony
Due to the significant Stipulations of Facts and Evidence not in dispute, the State
presented its case solely through oral argument. The Respondent testified and did not present

other witnesses.

STIPULATIONS OF FACTS AND EVIDENCE NOT IN DISPUTE!

1, Joint Exhibits 1 through 19” are admitted without objection, with the exception of
certain sections of Joint Exhibit 14 (August 29, 2017 — Board Investigator’s Investigative Report).

2. Paragraphs | through 3 of the April 30, 2018 Charges Under the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (“Charges” hereinafter) are not in dispute.

3. ‘The Respondent completed the required coursework in pain management,
bariatric medicine, and recordkeeping to the satisfaction of the Board.

4. The Respondent obtained a practice monitor, obtained the approval of the Board
for such a practice monitor, and satisfied all conditions in the 2015 Consent Order as it related to

the practice monitor.

5. Paragraphs 4 through 6 of the Charges are not in dispute.
6. Paragraph 9 of the Charges are not in dispute.
7. Paragraphs 12-18 of the Charges are not in dispute.

 

' With the exception of minor edits for grammatical errors, or for the sake of clarity and consistency with other
portions of this Proposed Decision (for example, substituting references to “Dr. Ojiegbe” with “Respondent”, or
instances where a particular stipulation did not constitute a complete sentence), I have reproduced the stipulations
verbatim as the parties presented them to me.

2 Joint Exhibit 20, the April 30, 2018 Statement of Charges and Notice of Violation of Consent Order, was admitted
at the hearing and thus was not included in the Joint Exhibit List or Joint Stipulations, which were both submitted to
the OAH on January 14, 2019.

} The Respondent objected to the portions of Joint Exhibit 14 which contained any conclusions drawn by the Board
investigator as to whether the Respondent actually committed violations of the Act. I overruled the objection but
advised the parties I would give little weight to the investigator’s conclusions on whether the Respondent committed
violations of the Act as that is the ultimate issue before me and I would be guided in this regard by my own
evaluation of all the evidence in the case.

4
