The Respondent further relies upon an unidentified article, purportedly published in 1983,
in which the unnamed “DEA Associate Chief Counsel” allegedly said (without quotation), “Acts
of prescribing or dispensing of controlled substances which are done within the course of the
registrant’s professional practice are, for purposes of the Controlled Substance Act, lawful.” The
Respondent then goes on to offer, “It matters not that such act might constitute terrible medicine
or malpractice. They may reflect the grossest form of medical misconduct or negligence. They are
nevertheless legal.” The Panel does not accept that this statement absolves the Respondent. The
Respondent was not charged under the Controlled Substances Act, he was charged under the
Maryland Medical Practice Act, and the alleged statement of an unnamed DEA counsel, published
in an unnamed article in 1983, does not convince the Panel that the Respondent did not violate the
Maryland Medical Practice Act. In any event, the Maryland Medical Practice Act is intended to
sanction “the grossest form[s] of medical misconduct.”

The Respondent also states, “the Respondent could not possibly be prescribing for illegal
or illegitimate medical purposes because the [2019] CDC Response . . . made clear to health
professionals that the CDC’s 2016 Guideline offered no support for mandatory opioid dose
reductions in patients with long-term care.” The Respondent, however, does not cite to where the
ALJ allegedly found that opioid dose reduction in patients with long-term pain was “mandatory.”
The Respondent further asserts, again without citation, that “cautionary dose thresholds from the
CDC’s 2016 Guideline have been intended to apply only for initiation of opioids, rather than for
the care of longstanding recipients who were stable at higher doses.” But the cover letter, dated
April 10, 2019, to the Clarification of the 2016 CDC Guideline (Exhibit 68) seems to say
something different: the “recommendation on high-dose prescribing focuses on initiation. The

Guideline offers different recommendations for patients already on dosages greater than or equal

17
