prescribe weight loss medications. He shut down his weight loss practice in or around November
2017. He argued he was not yet in violation of section 12-102(c)(2)(ii)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy Act
at the time the Charges were issued because he had not held the dispensing permit for five years;
he still had time to comply with the requirement to obtain the ten CME credits. The Respondent
urged me to recommend the dismissal of any charge related to his alleged failure to obtain the
required CME credits. Additionally, he noted he does not intend to revive his weight loss practice,
so he would not dispense prescription medications from his practice location.

The Respondent further disputed the assertion by the State and included in the Charges
that he made any willful false statements in applying for his dispensing permit. The Respondent
testified that at the time he applied for the permit, he was given information related to the
statutory and regulatory requirements for dispensing, including the reporting and record-keeping
requirements. He argued it is absurd for the State to argue that because he may have forgotten
some of the requirements or did not strictly adhere to them it meant he made willful
misrepresentations six years ago, when he first applied for and obtained the dispensing permit.
The inability to retain legal requirements in one’s memory with perfect clarity after a few years
is not, according to the Respondent, the equivalent of or even similar to a willful
misrepresentation of one’s knowledge at the time of signing an application. The Respondent
urged me to recommend the dismissal of any charge related to his alleged willful making of false
statements in applying for the dispensing permit.

Finally, the Respondent noted he was always cooperative with the Board’s inspections
and investigation requests, and there has been no allegation of any patient being harmed as a
result of the Respondent’s conduct. He argued a six-month suspension is too harsh a sanction
when he has closed down the portion of his business with which he continued to have

trouble — the weight loss practice — and has no intention of reviving it. The Respondent made

16
