 

return to the practice of medicine; (iv) after serving the period of suspension, he may petition the
Board for a termination of the suspension; and (v) should the Board determine the suspension
should be terminated, the Respondent shall abide by any conditions imposed by the Board for his
return to the practice of medicine, including the imposition of any period of probation.

The Respondent acknowledged being the subject of previous discipline by the Board,
which resulted in the Consent Order. He does not contest the findings and statements made in
the peer review reports related to his conduct in his weight loss practice. According to the
Respondent, he had a very challenging patient mix, and his patients would often refuse to let him
weigh them. Asa result of the difficulty he had in managing the patients in the weight loss
practice, he wound down that portion of his practice in or around November 2017 and re-focused
his attention on providing primary medicine care.

The Respondent conceded he is in violation of the Consent Order because he violated the
Medical Practice Act in how he handled his weight loss patients, as described by the peer
reviewers in their October 25, 2017 reports (Joint Exs. 15, 16). The Respondent further
conceded the dispensing deficiencies noted by the OCSA inspector in the February 21, 2017
inspection report and associated narrative memorandum (Joint Exs. 5, 6), and that those
deficiencies amounted to violations of the Medical Practice and Pharmacy Acts.

Although the Respondent largely conceded to the violations cited in the Charges and
argued by the State, he took issue with two allegations of misconduct. First, he disputed that he
failed to comply with the continuing medical education (CME) requirement under section
12-102(c)(2)(4i)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy Act Under that provision, a physician has five years to
record ten hours of CME eredits on dispensing, once the physician is licensed to dispense.

According to the Respondent, he obtained his dispensing license in May 2013° so he could

 

6 The Permit to Dispense Prescription Drugs was issued on May 13, 2013 and expired on May 12, 2018. (Joint Ex.
1, p.2.)

15
