The Charges also cite section 12-505 of the Pharmacy Act, which governs the labeling of
prescription drugs and devices, and provides the parameters under which a physician may
dispense thein, as follows:

(a) Except for a drug or device dispensed to an inpatient in a hospital or related
institution, each container of a drug or device dispensed shall be labeled in
accordance with this section.

(d)(1) Except as provided in this subsection, if an authorized prescriber dispenses
a drug or device, the prescriber shall label each container of the drug or device.

(2) In addition to any other information required by law, the authorized prescriber
shall include on the label:

(i) The name and strength of the drug or device;

(ii) The date the prescription is dispensed;

(iii) An expiration date of the drug or device which shall be the lesser of:

1. 1 year from the date of dispensing;

2. The month and year when the drug or device expires; or

3. A shorter period as determined by the authorized prescriber; and

(iv) Any appropriate special handling instructions regarding proper storage

of the drug or device.

Md. Code Ann., Health Oce. §§ 12-505 (a), (d) (2014).

The Respondent was further eited for violating section 22-311 of the Health General
Article (2015), which governs the packaging of substances which are dispensed via prescription
and provides as follows:

A dangerous household substance dispensed under the prescription of an
authorized prescriber may be provided in a package that does not meet the child
resistant packaging standards adopted under this subtitle if the noncomplying
package is:

(1) Required by the prescription; or

(2) Requested by the purchaser.

Additionally, under section 21-2A-03 of the Health General Article (Supp. 2018), entities
with dispensing privileges are required to submit certain data, as follows:

(c) Except as provided in subsection (d)° of this section, each dispenser shall
submit prescription monitoring data to the [Prescription Drug Monitoring
re
5 Section (d) authorizes the Secretary of the Maryland Department of Health to require the submission of the reports
through means other than electronically, Md, Code Ann., Health Gen. § 21-2A-03(d) (Supp. 2018).

9
