Program] by electronic means, in accordance with regulations adopted by the
Secretary.

In addition to these statutory provisions, the. Maryland Department of Health has also
promulgated regulations to govern the dispensing, reporting, and storage of prescription drugs

and devices. COMAR 10.13.01.04 imposes dispensing requirements in pertinent part as follows:

E. A licensee shall comply with the labeling requirements set forth in Health
Occupations Article, §12-505, Annotated Code of Maryland.

F. A licensee shall comply with the child resistant packaging requirements set
forth in Health-General Article, Title 22, Subtitle 3, Annotated Code of Maryland.

H. A licensee shall record the dispensing of the prescription drug on the patient’s
chart.

J. A licensee shall, except for starter dosages or samples provided without charge,
provide the patient with a written prescription.

_L. A licensee shall maintain biennial inventories of all stocks of controlled

substances.
M. A licensee shall dispense prescription drugs to a patient only when the patient
determines that a pharmacy is not conveniently available to the patient.
N. In each patient’s chart for each patient to whom prescription drugs are
dispensed or in a format readily retrievable, a licensee shall maintain a single
form which:

(1) Indicates that a pharmacy is not conveniently available to the patient;

(2) States that the determination that a pharmacy is not conveniently available
was made solely by the paticnt; and

(3) Is signed and dated by the patient before dispensing prescription drugs to
the patient for the first time.

Under COMAR 10.47.07.03A, a licensee has certain obligations related to dispenser
reporting, as follows:

A. For each monitored prescription drug dispensed, the dispenser shall report
the following prescription monitoring data to the Department:
(1) Identifying information for the prescription issued and drug dispensed,
including:
(a) Prescription number;
(b) Date prescription was issued;

10
