© Failure to alter, ccase, or re-evaluate patients” treatment regimens when patients
weights were not recorded despite months of treatment

e Failure to discuss or record discussions of activity and nutrition goals

e Failure to perform or record physical examinations of patients, even when prescribing
appetite suppressants or other drugs

* Failure to order or maintain lab tests as a means of investigating whether there were

co-morbid conditions which were related to or had an impact on patients’ weight
condition
Goint Ex. 15, 16.)

The State further noted that at all relevant times, the Respondent was subject to the
Consent Order. The allegations which resulted in the issuance of the Charges are both a
violation of the terms of the Consent Order and their own, separate violations under the Medical
Practice Act and the Pharmacy Act. The State was concemed by the similarity between the
violations specified in the Charges and the violations which resulted in the Consent Order. The
Respondent had already been sanctioned for deficiencies related to his dispensing practices and
in his provision of appropriate medical care to his patients. According to the State, it is troubling
the Respondent continued to experience the same problems in his medical practice. The State
urged me to consider recommending progressive disciplinary action against the Respondent in
light of the fact he did not significantly improve either his dispensing habits or his provision of
medical care between the issuance of the Consent Order and the issuance of the Charges. A
recommendation for progressive discipline (i.¢., the imposition of something above a reprimand) .
is not punitive, according to the State, but rather is designed to effectuate the Board’s goal:
maintaining public safety and welfare.

The State made the following sanctioning recommendations: (i) the Respondent be
permanently prohibited from dispensing any medications out of his office; (ii) the Respondent be
subject to a six-month suspension, commencing sixty (60) days after the date of any issued order to
give him the opportunity to close out his practice; (iii) he be required to undergo an evaluation by

the Center for Personalized Education for Professionals (CPEP) to determine whether he can safely

14
