the cash payments in a letter he sent the Board, dated February 14, 2019 (Exhibit 21), which states,
“There are no separate Billing Records other than what have been produced for the twenty (20)
patients. Those patients either did not have Health Insurances that my Clinic could bill or my
Clinic did not participate in the Insurances they had. They made payments as services were
rendered to them.” The Panel finds that the ALJ’s proposed finding indicates that the patients had
insurance that could have covered the relevant treatment but decided to pay cash to obtain
prescriptions from the Respondent instead of using their insurance elsewhere to cover the cost of
the visit. The Panel has modified the finding to make the point clear. (Finding of Fact 37 in this
decision.) The significance is that the patients would rather pay cash to the Respondent to avoid
any questions or inquires as to the legitimacy of the visits from those that insured them or accepted
their insurance,

The State’s expert reviewed the 20 patient records for the Board and found:

My review of these patient records demonstrates a pervasive theme of
prescribing high potency opioid medications without supporting medical
reasoning, without proper compliance monitoring, and blatantly ignoring
compliance issues, thus putting these patients at risk for overdose. This
behavior in combination with accepting cash payments for medical
services from patients with established medical assistance insurance
supports that Dr. Ojiegbe is aware that patients are trying to obtain
prescription opioid medications for illicit use, abuse, or diversion.

The Panel readily agrees with and accepts this assessment of the Respondent’s prescribing
practices. In the opinion of the State’s expert, the Respondent’s prescriptions were “for illegal or
illegitimate medical purposes.” The Panel agrees with this opinion.

The State’s expert specified in his report serious and obvious concerns regarding eight of
the patient charts he reviewed which highlighted that the patients were clearly non-compliant with

treatment, yet the Respondent continued to prescribe them high potency CDS. For instance, the

State’s expert wrote:

15
