admitted into evidence. The parties differed as to the appropriate sanction. No witnesses testified
at the hearing; however, at the hearing, the peer reviewer for the Board, who wrote a report on the
Respondent’s prescribing practices, was accepted as an expert in pain medicine. Likewise, a
physician who wrote a report for the Respondent on the Respondent’s prescribing practices was
accepted as an expert in pain management. Based upon the records admitted into evidence during
the hearing, the attorneys for the State and for the Respondent each argued the issues in this matter,

On November 18, 2020, the ALJ issued a Proposed Decision. The ALJ proposed that all
the grounds for discipline charged against the Respondent be upheld and that the Respondent’s
license to practice medicine be revoked.

The Respondent filed written exceptions with the Board. In the Respondent’s exceptions,
the numbering of disciplinary grounds appears mistaken at certain points, but it appears that he did
not take exception to any of the ALJ’s fact finding concerning violations of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(2), (3), (11), and (36), and, in fact, does not appear to have taken any exceptions concerning
the ALJ’s proposed conclusions that the Respondent violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(2), (3), (11),
and (36). The Panel believes that the Respondent did intend to take exception to certain findings
the ALJ made in support of the findings that the Respondent violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4),
(17), and (27),! although the Respondent did not make any argument to support his purported
exception concerning Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(17). On February 10, 2021, an oral exceptions

hearing was held before Board Disciplinary Panel A (the “Panel” or “Panel A”).

' On the second page of the Respondent’s exceptions, the Respondent states that he “excepts to
the finding[s] supporting violations of (4)(17) and (36).” (Italics added.) Based upon the remainder
of the Respondent’s exceptions, however, Panel A finds that he intended to state that he was taking
exception to § 14-404(a)(4), (17), and (27).
