1 am not persuaded by the State’s argument. The Respondent testified, without
contradiction, he familiarized himself with the applicable statutes and regulations at the time he
applied for the dispensing permit. The Respondent's incomplete recall of the regulations in 2017
does not mean that in April 20/3 he was unfamiliar with the regulations. It is not reasonable to
assume that because someone does not know or remember a fact in one given year it means the
person mever knew the fact in the first place. When something is done “willfully,” it is done
deliberately or intentionally.’ For me to find the Respondent violated sections 14-404(a)(11) and
(36) of the Medical Practice Act , the State has to demonstrate it is more likely than not that on
April 26, 2013 the Respondent was unfamiliar with the applicable statutes and regulations related
to dispensing prescription drugs. The State’s argument here amounts to retroactive pleading, i.c.,
“Because the Respondent did not know Thing A in 2017, he also did not know Thing A in 2013.”
The State produced no evidence to support the argument, particularly given the Respondent’s
testimony that he did review the statutes, regulations, and information sheet provided to him by the
Board at the timc he signed the application, I decline to find the Respondent violated sections
14-404(a)(11) and (36) of the Medical Practice Act .

Sanctioning Recommendation

Although I decline to find the Respondent violated section 12-102(c)(2)(ii)(4)(M) of the
Pharmacy Act and sections 14-404(a)(11) and (36) of the Medical Practice Act, I find the State
has satisfied its burden as to the remaining violations cited in the Charges. The Respondent
stipulated to the remaining violations. The remaining issue before me is the appropriate sanction.
As noted above, the State recommended a six-month suspension and further conditions. The

Respondent recommended a two-year period of probation and further conditions.

 

TeDefinition of Willful,” MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARY, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/willful,
(last accessed, April 19, 2019).

19
