repeatedly prescribed opioids in doses that exceeded CDC guidelines.” The Respondent states that
the ALJ erred because, according to the Respondent, “some of the patients came to the
Respondent’s Clinic while taking 30mg of Oxycodone which was reduced to 15mg or less in
keeping with the CDC Guidelines clarification.” In support, the Respondent cites, in general, to
one patient chart. In any case, the Panel will modify the finding to state, “For almost every patient
at issue, the Respondent prescribed high dose opioids without attempting, or real consideration of,
lower doses to determine whether the lower doses were effective in treating the patients. Instead,
generally, the Respondent immediately and repeatedly prescribed opioids in doses that exceeded
CDC guidelines.” (Finding of Fact 17 in this decision).

For the reasons set forth above, it is without question that the Respondent is professionally
incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4).

Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(27) (Sells, prescribes, gives away, or administers drugs for illegal or
illegitimate medical purposes)

The ALJ found overwhelming evidence showing that the Respondent prescribed CDS for
illegal or illegitimate medical purposes, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(27). Panel A,
likewise, has found the same. From June 2017 through January 2019, the Respondent issued
thousands of prescriptions for CDS. These prescriptions were issued to individuals with criminal
histories of prosecution for possession and distribution of CDS. These individuals travelled from
all over the State, including the Eastern Shore, southern Maryland, and central Maryland to his
office for these prescriptions. Most of these individuals did not live near his office. On the rare
occasions when there were results from toxicology screening, there were often results indicating
that patients were non-complaint with the medication regimens prescribed by the Respondent.
Nonetheless, the Respondent did not modify his treatment of the patients or seem to take these

aberrant results into account in his treatment. His records do not indicate that he addressed or even

13
