evaluated by the Center for Personalized Education for Professionals (“CPEP”) to determine
whether he is safe to return to the practice of medicine is a fair sanction that protects the public
and allows Dr. Ojiegbe to return to the practice of medicine when he is safe to do so.

The Panel agrees that a six-month suspension, which includes an evaluation by CPEP to
determine whether Dr. Ojiegbe can safely practice medicine is appropriate. Dr. Ojiegbe’s
exception is denied.

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that Vitalis ©. Ojiegbe, M.D.’s license to practice medicine is
SUSPENDED! for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS” and until he successfully completes an
evaluation by CPEP in order for Panel A to determine whether he can safely return to the
practice of medicine; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Ojiegbe shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it is

further

 

' (a) During the suspension period, Dr. Ojiegbe shall not:
(1) practice medicine;
(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the public as a current
provider of medical services;
(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Ojiegbe’s name or provider number by any health care
practice or any other licensee or heaith care provider;
(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the state;
(5) dispense medications; or
(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

(b) Dr. Ojiegbe shall establish and implement a procedure by which Dr. Ojiegbe’s patients may obtain their medical
records without undue burden and notify all patients of that procedure.

2 Dr. Ojiegbe’s license expired on September 30, 2019. Pursuant to section 14-403 of the Health Occupations
Asticle, the license of an individual regulated by the Board may not “lapse by operation of law while the individual
is under investigation or while charges are pending.” The charges in this case were issued before the expiration of
Dr, Ojiegbe’s license. Therefore, by operation of law, Dr. Ojiegbe’s license did not expire during these proceedings.
The period of the suspension and any conditions will be tolled, however, until Dr. Ojiegbe administratively
reinstates his license. See COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).

4
