Patient 6 had two positive urine toxicology tests for both oxycodone and
methadone on 7/28/17 and 3/17/2018. With two documented non-
compliant urine tests, and with being enrolled in a methadone maintenance
program, Patient 6 should have never been prescribed opioids. Patient 6
who lived at the same address as Patient 5, who also tested positive for
methadone and oxycodone on 8/5/2017 and 6/7/2018. In both patient
charts there was no mention of the non-compliant drug testing, counseling,
or follow up screening.

Patient 12 tested positive for cocaine 10/26/2017 . . . ., in addition to
oxycodone with no metabolite, suggesting that the patient simply
sprinkled some oxycodone into the urine sample to try to get a false
positive result. No changes were made in the treatment regimen and the
patient tested non-compliant on 3/26/2018 when both oxycodone and
alprazolam (Xanax) without the appropriate metabolites were detected.
Patient 13 tested non-compliant on 7/29/2017 and 2/27/2017, and then
non-compliant for Xanax metabolite, as well as fentanyl positive on
2/6/18.

‘The State’s expert detailed four other instances demonstrating a pattern of the Respondent
ignoring clear indications of non-compliance and likely diversion of CDS. The Respondent relies
upon his own pain management expert’s report, stating that his expert reviewed seven of the patient
records and the State’s expert report and “opined that there were no medical grounds to support
the State’s Expert opinion that the Respondent was prescribing opioids for illegal or illegitimate
medical purposes.” The Respondent’s expert, however, did not address the central focus of State’s
expert report, which was that, when the Respondent did laboratory testing for compliance with his
medication regimen, the Respondent did not address his patients’ noncompliance. Nor did the
Respondent’s expert address the indicators of diversion that the State’s expert described.
Disregarding the focusses of the State’s expert report diminished the weight of the Respondent’s

expert’s opinions. The Panel finds the State’s expert’s report well-supported and more persuasive

than the Respondent’s expert’s report. The Panel thus relied extensively on the State’s expert.

16
