the following sanction recommendation: (i) a two-year period of probation, during which the
Respondent would be subject to whatever conditions the Board deemed appropriate and during
which the Board could conduct at-will inspections as it deemed appropriate; (ii) the Respondent
be assigned a practice monitor for the period of probation; and (iii) the Respondent be required to
attend a Board-approved course on medical record keeping.
Analysis

With the exception of the allegations related to willfully making false statenients and
willfully filing a false report or record, and failing to obtain the required CME credits, the
Respondent stipulated to the allegations in the Charges and contained in the State’s supporting
documentary evidence. The primary issue before me is one of the appropriate sanction given the
facts of the case. I will first address the areas of dispute and then discuss a sanctioning
recommendation.

Failure to Obtain Required CME Credits

As noted above, section 12-102(c)(2)(4i)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy Act imposes a duty on
licensed physicians who also have dispensing authority to complete ten hours of CME credits
within the five years the dispensing permit is active. Here, the Respondent’s dispensing permit
was issued on May 13, 2013 and was set to expire on May 12, 2018. The bulk of the Board’s
investigation took place between February 21, 2017 (the date on which the OCSA inspector
conducted a cite visit and issued her inspection report) and November 20, 2017 (the date on which
the Board investigator issued a final report; see Joint Ex. 18). The Charges were issued on April
30, 2018. Asa practical matter, at the time the charges were issued, the Respondent could not
have been in violation of section 12-102(c)(2)Gi)(4)(M) of the Pharmacy Act. A reading of the
statute on its face demonstrates the earliest possible date on which the Respondent could be in

Violation was the last date on which the dispensing permit was effective - May 12, 2018. While

17
