medications to his patients in plain white envelopes rather than in child-resistant packaging, such
as standard-issue pill bottles. When the Respondent dispensed medication in this manner, he
frequently failed to document in his records whether the patients asked him to do so or otherwise
declined child-resistant packaging, The OCSA inspector also noted several deficiencies in the
Respondent’s record-keeping and reporting related to his dispensing practices and his handling
of prescription drugs and CDS. (See Joint Exs. 5, 6.)

The State argued the Respondent continued to have problems with his dispensing practice
because he was not familiar with the statutory and regulatory requirements for entities with
dispensing privileges. According to the State, there were several times during the OCSA
inspector's site visit on February 21, 2017 where the Respondent expressed surprise about
various requirements, such as performing a biennial count of on-hand CDS, providing written
prescriptions to his patients, and properly labeling the containers in whieh drugs were dispensed,
to give some examples. (Joint Ex. 6, pp. 36-37.) The State argued the Respondent’s
demonstrated lack of familiarity with statutory and regulatory dispensing requirements supports
a finding that he willfully made a false statement, in violation of the Medical Practice Act, when
applying for his dispensing permit.

In addition to the significant deficiencies in the Respondent’s dispensing practices and
record-keeping, the State also noted the Respondent's provision of medieal care to his weight
loss patients fell below the standards of care, as determined by two peer reviewers who assessed
the Respondent’s records. The peer reviewers looked at the records for six of the Respondent’s
weight loss paticnts, as well as the Respondent’s written summary of each patient’s care.
Among the deficiencies noted by the reviewers were the following:

© Failure to document patients’ weights in their chart, which makes actual weight

management nearly impossible

e Failure to alter, ccase, or re-evaluate patients’ treatment regimens when patients
gained weight
