 

LEGAL CONCLUSIONS

L Cause exists to revoke or suspend Respondent’s physician’s and surgeon’s
’ certificdte, pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 2234, subdivision (b), in that
Respondent committed gross negligence in his care of patients Le and Linden, as set forth in
Factual Findings 5 through 8.

2, Cause exists to revoke or suspend Respondent's physician’s and surgeon’s
certificate, pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 2234, subdivision (c), in that
Respondent committed repeated negligent acts in his care of patients Le and Linden, as set '
forth in Factual Findings 5 through 8.

3. Cause does not exist to revoke or suspend Respondent’s physician’s and
surgeon’s certificate, pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 2234, subdivision
(d), in that Complainant failed to establish, by clear and convincing evidence, that Respondent
demonstrated incompetence in his care of patients Le and Linden, as set forth in Factual
Findings 5 through 10,

4, Cause exists to revoke or suspend Respondent’s physician’ s and s surgeon’s .
certificate, pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 2266, in that Respondent failed °
to maintain adequate and accurate records in his care of patients Le and Linden, as set forth in
Factual Findings 5 through 9: .

5A. Cause exists to revoke or suspend Respondent’s physician’s and surgeon’s
certificate, pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 2290.5, subdivision (b), in that
Respondent failed to obtain consent for the use of telehealth in his care of patients Le and
Linden, as set forth in Factual Findings 5 through 9, and Legal Conclusion 5B.

5B. Business and Professions Code section 2290.5, subdivision (b) provides:

Prior to the delivery of health care via teleheaith, the health care :
provider initiating the use of telehealtli shall inform the patient about the
use of telehealth and obtain verbal or written consent from the patient

for the use of telehealth as an acceptable mode of delivering health care
services and public health. The consent shall be documented.

6. Cause exists to revoke or suspend Respondent’s physician’ s and surgeon 5
certificate, pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 2242, in that Respondent
provided recommendations for marijuana, a Schedule J controlled substance under Health and
Safety Code section 11054, subdivision (d)(13), without performing adequate physical
examinations on patients Le and Linden, as set forth in Factual Findings 5 through 9.
