3B. The 2011 Probation Order arose from Respondent’s 2009 conviction of the
following: one count of violating-Penal Code section 550 (health benefits fraud); two counts
of violating Penal Code 487 (grand theft); and one count of violating Revenue and Taxation
Code section 19806 (failure to file tax returns),

3C. _ Respondent’s conviction resulted from his 2003 through 2004 involvement in a
“scheme to defraud’ Medicare and Medi-Cal by fraudulently obtaining five separate provider
numbers for himself without disclosing that a provider number previously issued to him had
been suspended.” (Exhibit 14.) In order to escape criminal prosecution after investigators
discovered the criminal plot, Respondent cooperated with the law enforcement agencies
investigating and prosecuting the criminal actions. Over the course of many years,
Respondent provided extensive information about his physician co-conspirators. However, -
Respondent was still convicted of several of the counts with which he had been charged.

4A. Ina Decision and Order, effective October 24, 2013 (2013 Order), the Board
revoked Petitioner’s medical license, stayed the revocation, and placed Respondent on
probation an additional year beyond his four-year probation as set forth in the 2011 Order, for
a total probationary term of five years, effective  Bebruary 4, 2011.

4B. The 2013 Order arose after the Board issued an October 18, 2011 Citation
Order (Citation) against Respondent for aiding and abetting the unlicensed practice of
medicine by providing services at a medical clinic owned by a layperson. The Citation _
ordered Respondent to pay an administrative fine of $2,500 within 30 days of receipt of the
Citation. The Board attempted several times to contact Respondent to advise him that his
failure to comply with the Citation would result in disciplinary action against his license.
However, Respondent did not pay the administrative fine and failed to comply with the
Citation, prompting the filing of an Accusation and Petition to Revoke Probation.

4C.. Respondent's acts giving rise to the Citation occurred between February 4, .
2011, and October 18, 2011. During that time, while he was on Board-ordered probation,
Respondent provided medical marijuana recommendations at a Venice Beach medical clinic
‘which was illegally controlled by non-physicians.

Facts re: September 18, 2014 Undercover ‘Operation at Harbor Evaluations

. SA: On September 18, 2014, an undercover investigator with the Board went to
Harbor Evaluations in Costa Mesa, posing as a patient seeking a medical marijuana
recommendation, The investigator used a false patient name, David Le (Patient Le). -

5B. Patient Le spoke to a female clerk and filled out several forms which included a
patient questionnaire but did not include any informed consent document, The clerk-
discussed Patient Le’s history which included the sudden onset of headache which came and
