 

Standard of Care

84. Complainant offered the testimony and a March 27, 2017 expert report of
Robert M. Franklin, M.D., to establish.the standard of care in this case, Dr. Franklin received
his medical degree from George Washington University School of Medicine in 1990, and he
completed his residence in fumily practice at the University of California, San Francisco in
1993. Dr. Franklin is board certified in family medicine. .

8B. Dr. Franklin’s report and his credible and uncontroverted testimony established
the following regarding the standard of care for recommending medical marijuana in 2014:

(1). The standard of care regarding the recommendation of medical marijuana
requires that the physician recommend it only when it is clinically indicated and only as part
of a treatment plan with specific identifiable. goals. The standard of care also requires
documentation of all aspects of the evaluation process which support the decision to
recommend medical marijuana.

(2). | The standard of care is the same standard followed by a reasonable and prudent
physician when recommending any other medication to treat a medical condition. This
includes: taking a history and performing an appropriate examination of the patient;

. developing a treatment plan with objectives; providisig informed consent including a
discussion of side effects (set forth in further detail below); periodic review of the treatment’s
efficacy; consultation, as necessary; and proper record keeping that supports the decision to
recommend the use of medical marijuana.

(3). Informed consent is a process between the physician and patient during which
the physician informs the patient of the potential benefits and risks of the proposed treatment,
solicits and answers questions, and ascertains that the patient understands the risk/benefit ratio
and consents to accept the risks in order to obtain the benefits of the proposed treatment.

- Although detailed written forms that include a list of potential adverse effects of medical
marijuana are often part of the informed consent process, these forms alone are insufficient to
constitute informed consent. .

(4). In California during 2014, the use of medical marijuana was limited to the
treatment of “seriously ill” individuals. (Exhibit 12, p.12-012.) The physician was required to
determine: that medical marijuana is not masking an acute or treatable progressive condition;

- that medical marijuana use will lead to a worsening of the patient’s condition; and that the
risk/benefit ratio of medical marijuana is as good, or better, than other medications that could
be used for that individual patient. Additionally, it is incumbent upon the recommending

. physician to consult with the patient’s primary treating physical or to obtain the appropriate

patient records to confirm the patient’s underlying diagnosis aud prior treatment history.
