went. Patient Le told the clerk that he had tried a friend’s marijuana which made him feel
better. He stated that he rarely took over-the-counter medication for pain, and he denied using
physical therapy or acupuncture,

/ 5C. Patient Le was told that Dr. Wilder would be contacting him by Skype from
Washington, D.C., and the clerk thereafter took Patient Le to another room with computer
monitor on a desk. After Patient Le waited a while, a Skype call was answered and.
Respondent appeared on the screen. During their conversation, Patient Le told Respondent

- that he had a sudden onset of headaches for about four months, He denied seeing a physician,
and he reported that he tried a friend’s marijuana and that it worked really well.

5D. Nobody at Harbor Bvaluations physically examined Patient Le. Although he
completed a patient questionnaire, Respondent did not review that form with him.
Respondent did not tell Patient Le what telehealth or telemedicine was. Nobody asked Patient.
Le for his informed consent to use Skype or telemedicine, and nobody assured him that
secured devices were used.

SE. Respondent issued Patient Le a medical marijuana recommendation for which
Patient Le paid the clerk $80 in cash. The medical marijuana recommendation was pre~
signed with Respondent’s signature, so Patient Le was able to take a hard copy of the medical
marijuana recommendation with him that day.

- Facts re: February 9, 2015 Undercover Operation at Gamble Medical Group

«GAL On February 9, 2015, another undercover investigator with the Board went to’
Gamble Medical Group in Garden Grove, posing as a patient seeking a medical marijuana
recommendation, The investigator used a false patient name, Ky Linden (Patient Linden),

6B. Patient Linden spoke to a female clerk and filled out several forms which
included a patient history form and two additional pages. After Patient Linden gave the clerk
his paperwork, the clerk asked him about his chronic pain. Patient Linden stated that he had
pain all over his body, including his back. He denied seeing a physician during the prior four
years, and he reposted that he had used marijuana for 10 years.

6C. Thereafter, the clerk told Patient Linden that Dr. Wilder was ready, and she
took Patient Linden to another room with computer monitor on a desk. When Patient Linden
sat down in front of the computer, Respondent appeared on the screen and identified himself
as Dr. Wilder, Patient Linden told Respondent that he wanted to get a recommendation for
marijuana. .

_ 6D. During their conversation, Respondent asked Patient Linden about his medical
‘problem, and Patient Linden said he had stomach pain with sensitivity to dairy and inability to
