 

14A. Respondent eventually returned to Maryland where he held a medical license ©
and operated a private practice. However, according to Respondent, his private practice was
not generating income. In 2014, Respondent began working for Supreme, issuing medical
marijuana recommendations “long distance” via Skype to approximately 20 patients per day,
for five to six days per month. Respondent lived in Maryland, but flew to California once per
month to pre-sign stacks of blank medical marijuana recommendations. Respondent was paid
a flat fee of $2,500 per month for his work. According to Respondent, he worked for
Supreme for only one year.

148. - Respondent would not admit any wrongdoing in issuing the medical marijuana
recommendations to patients Le and Linden. He did not address his failure to conduct
* physical examinations of the patients prior to issuing pre-signed medical marijuana
recommendations. Instead, Respondent insisted that he reviewed patient histories prior to
initiating the Skype interactions, that he believed every patient signed a consent form for
teleniedicine, and that he was not responsible for maintaining the Supremé database.

15. It is unclear from Respondent’s testimony what employment he. held from 2015
through 2017. .

16. Respondent has been employed as an emergency room physician at tlie
University of Maryland for approximately seven mouths: (i. ¢., since about the end of 2017),

17. Respondent does not currently practice medicine in California: Téplaced on
probation i in this action, he infends to continue living and working in Maryland, and he does
not intend to resume practicing medicine in California. Respondent noted that he could suffer
discipline of his Maryland medical license based on any discipline imposed in California.
Respondent stated that the only reason he is contesting this case is that if his California license
is revoked or placed on probation “that will follow [him] to Maryland.”

: 18. Respondent does not believe his California medical license should be
disciplined because he has completed his probation and be now treats patients “in the
emergency room every day.” Respondent acknowledged. that he failed to.comply with Board
probation once before. .

19. J, Timothy Fives, retired Special Agent for the California Department of
Justice, testified on Respondent’s behalf and lauded Respondent’s lengthy cooperation with
law enforcement in the healthcare fraud case (see Factual Finding 3.)

i
i
