(1). failed'to use a’secure server when providing telemedicine to cach patient;

. (2). _ failed to obtained verbal informed consent from either patient before using
telehealth; and ‘

(3). used telehealth to evaluate and treat each patient without ensuring tat a
thorough physical examination was performed.

9,» The totality of the evidence established that Respondent failed to maintain |
adequate medical records for both patients.

10, In the Accusation’s Third Cause for Discipline, Complainant alleges that
Respondent demonstrated incompetence in his care and treatment of patients Le and Linden,
This allegation was not established by the evidence.

Respondent ’s Background, Rehabilitation & Character Evidence

- 11. . Respondent seeks to maintain his California licensure without being placed on
probation. At the administrative hearing he presented as a vague, evasive, and withdrawn
witness, and he expressed no remorse for the risk to patients which his actions had caused,

12. Respondent provided a circuitous and sketchy timeline of his work history.
From what could be gleaned, Respondent completed a residency in emergency medicine in
2003 at Martin Luther King, Jr, - Charles R. Drew Medical Center, and immediately began
working at Centinela Hospital Medical Center in Inglewood. In 2003, Respondent became
involved in the fraud scheme which eventually led to his conviction. Respondent left
Califormia in May 2004 to begin four years of employment as an assistant professor at Howard
University in Washington D.C., and during that time, he also worked Washington Adventist
Hospital in Maryland.

13. After 2008, Respondent had difficulty obtaining employment since he was
facing criminal charges, was prohibited from billing Medicare and Medi-Cal, was subject to
Board probation, and was also subject to discipline in Maryland (from 2010 until 2015).
Respondent practiced medicine in the United States Virgin Islands for a while before
returning to Maryland to open a private practice, which he noted was “not lucrative” due to
his continued inability to bill Medicare. During that time, in about 2010, Respondent began
issuing medical marijuana recommendations at the Venice Beach clinic, which Respondent
noted was “a good way to:make maney.” This led to the 2011 Citation (see Factual Finding
4). After discontinuing work at the Venice Beach clinic, Respondent went to Saudi Arabia
for an unspecified time frame.
