drink cold water in the morning. Respondent asked if Patient Linden had back pain, and
Patient Linden indicated that he did éxperience pain.-stemming from a prior skateboarding
accident. Patient Linden denied undergoing any medical evaluation or MRI for his back pain
or having been tested for ulcers. Patient Linden confirmed that he had tried marijuana before,
Although Respondent asked if Patient Linden had “read the form” and “underst[ood] the
risk,” Respondent did not discuss with Patient Linden the risks, benefits or alternatives to
marijuana. Respondent told Patient Linden to follow up with his doctor, and he suggested
physical therapy or anti-inflammatories for his back.- Respondent instructed Patient Linden to
return for follow-up in three months, _ .

6E. Nobody at Gamble Medical Group physically examined Patient Linden or |
measured his blood pressure, height or weight, No detailed history was taken. Respondent
did not tell Patient Linden what telehealth or telemedicine was, Nobody asked Patient Linden
for his informed consent to use Skype or telemedicine, and nobody assured him that secured
devices were used,

GF. Respondent issued Patient Linden a medical marijuana recommendation for
which Patient Linden paid the clerk $90 in cash. The medical marijuana recommendation
was pre-signed with Respondent’s signature, so Patient Linden was able to take a hard copy
of the medical marijuana recommendation with him that day.

- Certification of No Records

7A. The Board requested the medical records for patients Le and Linden from
Harbor Evaluation Center, Gamble Medical Group, and Respondent.

78. The Supreme Team Medical Group, Inc. (Supreme), which owned Harbor
Evaluation Center and Gamble Medical Group, provided to the Board copies of: the médical
marijuana recommendation issued to Patient Linden; a copy of Patient Linden’s driver’s
license; a two-page completed patient intake form; a two-page typewritten Release of
Liability, signed by Patient Linden; and a form discussing the different types of medical
cannabis, their varying benefits, and common side effects of cannabis. .

7C. Respondent did not provide the Board with any records for patients Le or

, Linden. Instead, he submitted a Certification of No Records, which he signed on September -
23, 2015.

if
it
