7. Cause exists to revoke or suspend Respondent’s physician’s and surgeon’s
certificate, pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 2234, in that Respondent
engaged in unprofessional conduct in his care of patients Le and Linden, as set forth in
Factual Findings 5 through 9.

8A. Respondent committed gross negligence and repeated negligent. acts, failed to
obtain consent for telemedicine, failed to conduct any physical examination prior to issuing
pre-signed medical marijuana recommendations, and failed to maintain adequate patient
records. The remaining question is tlic nature of the discipline to be imposed against
Respondent’s medical license for his violations, Respondent seeks a public letter of
reprimand; Complainant seeks revocation of Respondent’s medical license.

8B. Inher opening statement, Respondent’s counsel noted that acquisition of
recreational marijuana is now legal in California. However, this case is not about the current
legality and non-medical availability of marijuana. Instead, this case examines Respondent’s
flouting of the laws and standards of medical practice at the time of his misconduct, ~
Respondent’s current violations are underscored by his prior disciplinary history ail of which
comprehensively evidence his continued disregard for the law and for patient Safety.

8C. Since 2003 (when he began engaging in healthcare fraud), Respondent has
used his California medical license, as a tool for making easy money rather than for its /
intended purpose, as certification Of his clinical skills. While physicians are not required to -
practice medicine for solely altruistic purposes, they are required to act with regard for patient
. welfare and with honesty and integrity. Respondent has failed to do so. After his 2009 fraud.
conviction, Respondent aided and abetted the unlicensed practice of medicine in a medical
marijuana clinic, and he more recently engaged in gross negligesice by providing pre-signed *
medical marijuana recommendations without any physica] examination of the patients. —

: 8D, Additionally, Respondent’s testimony illustrates his continued focus on his own
gain rather than on patient welfare. Respondent testified that he wishes to retain his
unrestricted licensure in California solely in order to prevent reciprocal discipline of his
Maryland license. While Respondent is purportedly practicing medicine appropriately in
another state, this does not indicate that he would be willing or able to practice in California
in a manner that would take into account the welfare of California patients.

8E. Moreover, Respondent expressed no remorse and refused to fully admit his
current violations. This precludes a finding of rehabilitation or at least the possibility of
working toward rehabilitation. Furthermore, Respondent failed to provide any assurance that,
if he was allowed to remain licensed in California, he would become more compliant with the
laws governing the practice of medicine. The foregoing, coupled with his prior failed.
probation, bodes poorly for Respondent’s future compliance. :

10
