Wow! What can I not say about a terrific doctor, what I would like to say

is that I truly, truly, truly appreciate [the Respondent]. All the pain issues I’ve

been going through all these years[—Jhe’s been so attentive to understand what

I’ve been going through. He’s always prompt fo respond in a timely fashion

through kp.org or phone calls. Due to my pain situation, he has always fit me into

his schedule to take care of my condition. J hope he never, never leaves. I want to

thank him from the bottom of my heart for the person he is.

(Test. Patient 6, T.at 497; State’s Ex, 33 at 00035.)

Nevertheless, the evidence offered by the State depicts a very different Respondent—
not the caring physician that Patient 6 portrayed in her June 24, 2013 e-mail—but a sexual
predator who engaged in a pattem of subtly groping his female patients, including Patient 6,
while ostensibly examining them for back pain.”®

The Respondent engaged in a distinct pattern of abuse that can be readily discerned,
beginning with Patient 1. Elements of that pattern can be seen in how he interacted with her, as
well as the remaining six patients who are the subject of the Board’s charges.

B. Patient 1. |

Patient 1 began seeing the Respondent precisely because the Respondent used twilight
sedation to administer otherwise painful spinal injections. Patient 1 testified that the Respondent
first examined her on November 21, 2012, ee Office Building. That
examination took place in a cubicle surrounded by privacy curtains that could be rolled in and
out of place.

According to Patient 1, during that November 21, 2012 examination, once the
Respondent manipulated her legs, he had her pull down her pants and underwear past her
buttocks. The Respondent then took his bare hands (i.e., hé was not wearing gloves) and
examined Patient 1’s lower waist and buttocks. Patient 1 noted that the Respondent started at her
hips and moved his hands up and down until he reached her buttocks. Once there, the

?8 Or, as the State characterized it, “[TJhe Respondent inappropriately touched seven female patients in sexualized
areas of their body, their vagina, buttocks and anus without medical necessity, without patient consent and under the
guise of medical treatment.” (T. at 1404.)

52
