the Respondent by the removal of a charge. In another example, a sentence in Charge 18 was
amended to change the words, “After the procedure,” to “Before the procedure,” and “post-
surgical” to “pre-surgical.” Again, with the remainder of Charge 18 intact, I cannot find any
prejudice to the Respondent; he still had sufficient information to defend against the charge. In

_ addition, it would be a tremendous waste of time for the Administrative Prosecutor to receive
pennission from the Board every time she wanted to make minor alterations in the charges, when
they did not impair the fundamental aspects of the charges as a whole.

Furthermore, Footnote 3 of the Amended Charges, states the following:

The statements of the Respondent’s conduct with respect to the patients

identified herein are intended to provide the Respondent with notice of the alleged

charges. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent a complete

description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial to be offered

against the Respondent.

(State’s Ex. 51 at 4.)

With this disclaimer, the Board is alerting the Respondent that it does not intend to prove
each charge against him verbatim. Its charges serve as a guide to alert the Respondent about the
nature of his alleged misconduct. As the State notes, the charging document only needs to
provide the Respondent with the “gist of the charges.” Regan v. State Bd. of Chiropractic
Exam'rs, 355 Mad. 397, 417-18 (1999). The Amended Charges document, with or without
alterations, certainly does that. Similarly, the Court of Special Appeals, citing Mullane v. Central
Hanover Bank & Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 314 (1950), noted, “Due process requires ‘notice
reasonably calculated, under all the circumstances, to apprise interested parties of the pendency
of the action and afford them an opportunity to present their objections.’” Reese v, Dep't of
Health & Mental Hygiene, 177 Md. App. 102, 150 (2007). The Amended Charges document

fulfills this requirement as well.
