The Respondent denied sexually abusing Patient 1 or touching her jnappropriately in any
way. He, in fact, made a blanket denial of abusing and/or inappropriately touching all seven of
the patients who have accused him of wrongdoing. To amplify his blanket denial, he called Dr.
Neil Howard Blumberg, whom | accepted as an expert in forensic psychiatry. The Respondent
asked Dr. Blumberg to provide an opinion concerning whether he had the mental make-up of a
sexual predator. Dr. Blumberg testified that he conducted two mental status examinations of the
Respondent—the latest one done on October 24, 2016, within a month of the first day of the .
hearing. Based on those examinations, Dr. Blumberg expressed the opinion that the Respondent
does not have the mental make-up to be a sexual predator. (Test. Blumberg, T. at 863-66.) Dr.
Blumberg noted that has been a practicing forensic psychiatrist for thirty-five years. During four
of those years (from 2009 through 2013), he was Chief of Forensic Services at Spring Grove
Hospital Center, a State-run inpatient psychiatric facility. Dr. Blumberg noted that he has seen’
many individuals who have been diagnosed as psychopathic sex offenders. In his view, the
Respondent possesses none of the proclivities of a psychopathic sex offender. (T. at 866.)
According to Dr. Blumberg, the Respondent does not have an elevated or grandiose mood state.
He is neither impulsive nor hypersexual. The Respondent is not narcissistic, antisocial or
manipulative. In short, Dr. Blumberg stated because the Respondent has none of the character
traits one would expect to find ina psychopathic sex offender, chances are that the Respondent is
not one. (Id.)

I have considered Dr. Blumberg’s expert testimony, but do not find it compelling. It lacks
persuasivences because it does not address the situations that form the basis for the Board’s
charges. The Respondent is not charged with rape or any other criminal offense. Dr. Blumberg’s
assessment might be accurate insofar as it shows that the Respondent would be incapable of

committing rape or aggravated sexual assault outside of the doctor-patient relationship. As

57
