buttocks without medical necessity on November 21, 2012, touched her buttocks and area
surrounding her vagina without medical necessity on June 14, 2013 and placed his fingers inside
Patient 1’s vagina and brashed his knuckles over her clitoris without medical necessity on
January 24, 2014. These acts, by falling within the purview of sexual misconduct by a physician,
as defined by COMAR 10.32.17.02B(3)(a) and (b), in turn, constitute immoral and
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, subjecting the Respondent to disciplinary
action against his medical license under section 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) of the Act.
C. Patient 2.
The Respondent’s misconduct, as it related to his putting his fingers inside Patient 1’s
vagina, prompted Patient 1 to notify her primary care physician, Dr. me in turn,

reported what Patient 1 told him to the Respondent’s superiors. Dr. P| the

Respondent’s supervising physician, ultimately became involved and placed the Respondent on

  

approximately two weeks administrative leave while he had onduct an
investigation into Patient 1’s allegations. On or about February 13, 2014, Dr Rane
the Respondent, told him nal found Patient 1’s charges unsubstantiated,
but he also directed the Respondent to (1) always use non-family member chaperones for all
female patients and all patients, male or female, where breasts, buttocks or genitals might
become involved and (2) attend an online seminar called, “Understanding Boundary Violations
and Chaperone Use-Best Practices. 3 |

The Respondent believes that because Dr BP owes him to return fo work, he
had been exonerated of engaging in sexualized conduct with regard to Patient 1. (He

remembered De: him, “That lady’s crazy. I don’t know what she’s talking

about.” Test. Resp., T. at 1242.) Yet, | find it telling that Dr RF ome a stricter version

>? The Respondent has a different recollection of his telephone conversation with Dr. a which 1 will discuss

in more detail below, as that conversation is more relevant to my discussion of the Board’s charges under section
14-404(a)(11) and (36) of the Act.

 

61
