corroboration), but that too was unavoidable under the circumstances of this proceeding. Most of
the patients here were reluctant to complain about the Respondent’s inappropriate touching,
because they were unsure whether the Respondent ‘was just performing a thorough.examination
or whether he had crossed the line into sexual impropriety. Despite the time lags present here, I

’ found the patients’ versions of what occurred essentially identical at the macro level.
Discrepancies only appear at the micro level.-Again, I will examine in detail how these micro
variances did or did not affect each patient’s credibility.

The Respondent has protested throughout all phases of this proceeding that he was unable

to seek potentially exculpatory materials from his former copoye dealt with
the subpoena that the Respondent sent i. various patient interview records

in my November 14, 2016 Order and on the first day of hearing. I will not revisit that ruling here.
" Suffice it to state, that in the instances of six out of seven patients, the Respondent had the
opportunity to confront his accusers face-to-face. His attomeys engaged in rigorous cross-
examination of those six patients. His attorneys had the opportunity to question Ms. Noppinger
about Patient 7’s interview. His attorneys also had the opportunity to object to the State’s
evidence. Additionally, I am not making my proposed decision based ‘i
investigation; lam making it solely on the record before me.

The Respondent further asserts that the failure of Ms. Noppinger to inform the Board of
discrepancies and inconsistencies between the statements of the complaining patients in the
medical record and other objective facts, which he contends, might have avoided bringing of
some or all the charges in the first place, was also a deficiency in the Board’s investigation. The
Respondent cited no legal authority that requires the investigator to inform the Board of any
discrepancies and inconsistencies. As noted above, section 14-405(g) of the Act forecloses

attacks on the investigative process.
