54. After the Respondent had Patient 2 perform the leg exercises on the examination
table, he directed her to stand up facing toward the door, The Respondent was behind Patient 2.
The Respondent went on to palpate Patient 2°s spine from her neck to her abdomen. As he
pressed down Patient 2’s spine, he asked Patient 2 if it hurt at each pressure point. Patient 2

- indicated that it did not hurt substantially in the areas where he was pressing, except in the waist
area, (Test. Patient 2, T. at 330.)

55. The Respondent continued pressing downward. When he got to the region where
Patient 2’s buttocks started, he asked Patient 2 to unbutton her blue jeans, so be could palpate
further down Patient 2’s spine. (Test. Patient 2, T. at 331.) .

56. The Respondent grabbed Patient 2’s panties and tried to pull them down. When he
did not have success in doing this, he asked Patient 2 if she could pull them down to the point
that she was exposing her whole buttocks, which would allow him to examine the end of her
spine. Patient 2 complied with this request. (Test. Patient 2, T. at 331.)

57. The Respondent continued to palpate downward until he touched around Patient
2s anal area on the outside only. He was gentle, but he still made Patient 2 feel very
uncomfortable.!* The Respondent asked Patient 2 if his touching hurt, to which Patient 2 replied,
“Not really.” (Test. Patient 2, T. at 331.)

58. The Respondent reached for soie gloves that were available on the sink, placed
them on his hands, and began touching the inside of Patient 2’s anus. He did so without using
any cream or lubricant. (Test. Patient 2, T. at 331.)

59. Patient 2 continued to feel uncomfortable as the Respondent examined her around

her anus, but she did not tell the Respondent about her discomfort. (Test. Patient 2, T. at 332.)

 

12 When Patient 2 testified that she was “uncomfortable,” I understood this to mean that she was uncomfortable
“because she was embarrassed by what the Respondent was doing to her.

15
