In a similar vein, the Respondent argues that the failure of Ms. Noppinger to notify him
when it altered the allegations of the patients to correspond to what she determined would be the
correct dates or circumstances (based on medical records or other documents) was a deficiency
that denied him due process. Again, the Respondent cited no legal authority establishing such a
requirement, and, likewise, section 14-405(g) of the Act precludes an attack on the investigative
process.

According to the Respondent, the Board also violated his due process rights by failing to
obtain peer review information about how lower back examinations should be done. To the
extent that peer review was necessary, the State’s failure to pursue it would only inure to the
benefit of the Respondent.”” L agree with the State, however, that peer review was unnecessary
here because this hearing did not involve standard of care issues. Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(22)
(Supp. 2016); COMAR 10.32.02.03D(1)(a). The charges at issue concern inappropriate sexual
touching by the Respondent, not whether the Respondent performed a proper lower back
examination of the patients who accused him of sexual misconduct.

The Respondent further argues that the Administrative Prosecutor’s amendment of the
charges “on-the-fly” is not a call that an administrative prosecutor can make. Amendment
authotity is vested in the Board. The Respondent views any amendment of the charges as making
him face a “moving target,” which rendered him incapable of offering a cogent defense.

I disagree with the Respondent’ s assertions regarding the amendment of the Amended
Charges. The Amended Charges were not altered in any significant way such that the
Respondent could not defend against them. For example, Charge 13 was altered to eliminate the
sentence, “The Respondent then reached around and came close to, but did not touch Patient 1’s

vagina.” That is a charge that the State admitted that it could not prove. I cannot find prejudice to

 

2) The Respondent could have offered his own peer review evidence in the form of an expert opinion, provided that
he complied with the requirements of COMAR 10,32.02,04C(3)(a).

49
