Part of the problem I found was that Patient 1 confused what occurred on June 14, 2013
with what occurred on January 24, 2014. On the latter occasion, the Respondent touched Patient
1's vagina, and his knuckles grazed Patient 1’s clitoris. To reiterate, given that three incidents
occurring over fourteen months were involved here, one would expect Patient 1’s memory to
fade after two or three years. Yet, the essence of her account of what occurred remains intact.

. The Respondent also attempted to impeach Patient 1’s credibility by challenging her ,
memory about where (i.e., the specific ER: his examinations of her took place, the
way she related what took place to her primary care physician, the kind of procedure she

‘received and so on. I consider these attempts to discredit Patient 1 failures for the reasons already
set forth.

- Despite my finding Patient 1’s testimony credible as a whole, I do not find sufficient
credible evidence to support the Board’s allegation in Charge 22 that the Respondent had an
erection while he was examining Patient 1 on January 24, 2014. The Respondent indicated that
he was wearing loose-fitting extra-large scrubs on that day that would have obscured any
erection, even if he had one. The State suggests that the obscuring effect of the scrubs would be
eliminated once the Respondent sat down, and Patient 1 indicated that on the date in question the
Respondent was sitting down when he examined her. There are reasons that Patient 1 might have
seen a bulge or ripple in the Respondent’s scrubs on January 24, 2014, other than the Respondent
having an erection. Therefore, without more support in the record, I find the evidence
inconclusive that the Respondent had an erection on that date.

With regard to Patient 1, I conclude that the Respondent committed a sexual impropriety
as defined by COMAR 10.32.17.02B(2)(b)Gi) when he spread the cheeks of Patient 1°s buttocks
on November 21, 2012 without using gloves. I further conclude that he committed a sexual .

violation as defined by COMAR 10.32.17.02B(4)(v) when he spread the cheeks of Patient 1’s

60
