in the Board’s Final Decision and Order, but did not describe any facts of his actual conduct that
resulted in the revocation of his license. Specifically, Dr. Williams did not describe the sexual
abuse he inflicted on his patients or acknowledge the instances of misrepresentations on his
applications. In responding to the question regarding his understanding of the Board’s concerns
with his conduct, Dr. Williams generically referred to the Board’s concern with “my ability to
conduct myself in a professional manner which reflects the high ethical, moral, and medical
standard required of all healthcare providers in the State of Maryland.” In response to his
question about whether he accepted responsibility, Dr. Williams simply stated “Yes.” Dr.
Williams did not express remorse or elaborate.

In response to the question asking what steps Dr. Williams took to prevent recurrence,
Dr. Williams stated that he has “taken appropriate actions to address each of the Board’s
concerns. .... [and that] a chaperone will be present at all times during examinations to ensure
that all interactions are properly monitored.” Aside from his assurance that he would use a
chaperone in his practice going forward, the most specific information that Dr. Williams
provided in his letter was his statement that he “completed CME credits in the areas of
unprofessional behavior, professional boundaries, ethics, physician impairment, malpractice
liability, health care quality, confirmation bias and bias in medical care.”
Ill. CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION

The reinstatement of a physician’s medical license after revocation is a discretionary
decision by the Panel. Health Occ. § 14-409; see Oltman vy. Maryland State Board of Physicians,
182 Md. App. 65, 78 (2008). The Panel must consider whether post-disciplinary reinstatement is
in the interest of the health and welfare of the general public and consistent with the best interest

of the profession. COMAR 10.32.02.06B(7). Critical issues for the Panel’s consideration
