 

Patient 1’s description of how the Respondent touched her in sexualized areas demonstrates,
though, his sexual misconduct is not overt, but subtle. In reviewing the descriptions of how the
Respondent sexually touched each of the seven patients, I found a distinct pattern. The
Respondent always started his examination by squeezing or manipulating a non-sexualized part
of Patient 1*s body, her back or legs, for example. He would then work his way either up or
down to a sexualized area, such as the buttocks or vagina. His modus operandi was so discreet
that after her first examination by the Respondent, Patient 1 actually questioned herself about

whether the Respondent had crossed any boundaries, even though she felt his exam was

&,

nasty.”3!

The Respondent not only attempted to bolster his own credibility, but he went on to
attack Patient 1°s credibility (as well as all of the other patients who are the subject of this "
hearing). The Respondent focused on the many discrepancies in her testimony in an effort to
discredit her. As I already noted, I find no merit in this approach. I will, however, for the sake of
completeness, address his arguments in this regard.

The Respondent asserts that on November 21, 2012, contrary to what was in the Board’s
original charges, the Respondent did not come close to Patient 1’s vagina when he examined
Patient 1. During the hearing, as already discussed, the State had, to withdraw that part of its
original charge. The Respondent maintains that on November 21, 2012, he did a lumbosacral
spinal exam on Patient 1 to treat her symptoms of sacroiliac joint dysfunction. He did not
examine Patient 1°s buttocks in any way. In short, the Respondent contends that he performed a

proper examination of Patient 1’s lumbar spine that in no way involved any sexual misconduct,

3! The State suggests that taking Dr, Blumberg’s assessment to its logical conclusion, if a mental disorder did not
compel the Respondent to commit the acts of sexual misconduct with his female patients, then he must have done
them purely to seek his own sexual gratification. (T. at 1411-12.)

58
