The ALJ considered the discrepancies in Patient 6’s testimony pointed out by Dr.
Williams and, nevertheless, found Patient 6 credible despite the lack of precision in her
testimony. The ALJ placed more weight on the details Patient 6 gave regarding Dr. Williams’s
conduct and did not find Dr. Williams credible. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s credibility
determinations with respect to Patient 6 and Dr. Williams. The Panel finds that Dr. Williams
committed a sexual violation as to Patient 6 and, therefore, is guilty of immoral and
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. §14-404(a)(3).
Dr. Williams’s exception as to Patient 6 is denied.

Patient 7

As discussed above, Patient 7 did not testify at the OAH hearing. The State submitted the
transcript of Patient 7’s interview with the Board investigator, which was admitted into evidence.
Patient 7 could not recall the date of the inappropriate exam, but estimated that it occurred during
the summer of 2014. Patient 7’s medical records, however, reflect that the date of the
examination was May 23, 2013. On May 30, 2013, Patient 7 called the office and spoke with a
physician assistant asking for an explanation of the exam Dr. Williams performed on her.

Dr. Williams argues that the ALJ had no ability to assess demeanor of Patient 7 because
Patient 7 did not testify at the hearing and erroneously relied on the transcript of Patient 7’s
Board interview while ignoring the uncontroverted testimony of several witnesses who described
Patient 7 as dishonest. Dr. Williams also points out several inconsistencies in Patient 7’s
interview. For example, Dr. Williams notes that Patient 7 stated in her email through the patient
portal that Dr. Williams was wearing gloves during the examination, but in the complaint and in
her Board interview that Dr. Williams was not wearing gloves. Patient 7 also stated that she had

seen Dr. Williams for several years before the date of the alleged incident, but her medical
