- Respondent spread and, opened Patient l’s buttocks cheeks, placing his fingers inside her gluteal
cleft as he did so.”

Patient 1 stated that she thought it was odd that the Respondent needed to examine her
buttocks at all, let alone in the manner that he did. She asserted, “When I left, I had the notion in
my head my doctor‘is nasty. He examined me with no gloves. But I did not view it as being
anything wrong. | just viewed it as part of his examination and he was just careless.” (Test.

Patient 1, T. at 198.)

 
 
 

then and has nowa chaperone policy. , RT
testified that chaperone policy allowed all patients (as well as parents and
guardians) to request a nonfamily member chaperone to be present during an examination or
procedure, including, but not limited to: (1) any pelvic examination and (2) any genital, breast
and/or anal examination. Signs announcing this policy are posted in all i: examination
rooms, Patient 1 reported, however, that no chaperone was present during the November 21,
2012 examination, or during any subsequent examinations of her that the Respondent performed. .
She, like the other patients mentioned here, found no need for a chaperone because the
Respondent was examining her for issues related to spinal pain; she did not anticipate him
examining her buttocks.

_ On December 14, 2012, the Respondent administered two injections to Patient 1, a TFESI

and an LEI. Patient 1 had an appointment with the Respondent on January 26, 2013, as a follow-

up to receiving her injections. Patient 1 averred that these appointments took place without

incident.

——

2° On July 8, 2015, Patient 1 told Ms. Noppinger that the Respondent “felt inside her behind.” (State’s Ex. 8 at 5.)
On November 14, 2016, she testified that he “felt inside my buttock.” (T. at 201.) Based on Patient 1’s two parallel
accounts of what occurred and Patient 1’s assertion that the Respondent did not penetrate ber anus, 1 determined that
on November 21, 2012, the Respondent used Patient 1s gluteal cleft or buttocks crack as the gripping point for his
fingers when he spread Patient 1’s buttocks’ cheeks.

53
