When he got ready to, you know, start the procedure, he spreaded my butt
cheeks. He was pushing with a finger, I don’t know which finger, but it was a lot

of poking down there.

And I said to him, “No doctor has ever done down this far before. I’ve had

these injections done before and no doctor has ever gone down this far,” and he

said to me that he’s trying to get it as close to the nerve as possible.

Patient 4 explained that the injection she received was different from the previous injections
because this injection was “in between my buttocks.”

Dr. Williams did not tell her that she was getting a different type of injection than she had
previously received or explain to her the reason for the different type of injection. The medical
record reflects that a caudal epidural steroid injection under ultrasound guidance was performed,
which is different from the lumbar epidural steroid injection that she had received in the past.
The patient testified on cross examination that she had never received a caudal injection before
and that she now recognizes that this injection is done lower than the lumbar injections which
she was used to receiving.

While Dr. Williams should have informed the patient that she would be getting a
different type of injection then she had received in the past and explained the reasons for doing
the caudal injection, in light of the apparent confusion about the type of injection being
performed, the Panel finds that there is insufficient evidence to substantiate a finding of sexual
misconduct as to Patient 4. Dr. Williams’s exceptions to the ALJ’s decision pertaining to Patient
4 are granted. The Panel does not adopt the ALJ’s discussion for Patient 4.

Patient 5

Dr. Williams began treating Patient 5’s back pain in 2013. On November 23, 2013, Dr.

Williams saw Patient 5 for a follow-up examination without anyone else present in the

examination room. Dr. Williams asked Patient 5 to lay face down on the examination table. The

patient’s pants were lowered to her thighs and her underwear was lowered just above the crack in

13
