 

difficulty in recalling when certain events happened and where they happened. She confused
some of the events that occurred in June 2013 with those that occurred in January 2014. She also
misidentified the place where her January 2014 examination and injection procedure took place

=

The variations in what Patient 1 remembered actually bolster Patient 1’s trustworthiness.

    

If Patient 1 had concocted a tale of alleged sexual abuse by the Respondent, evidence of
rehearsal would have been readily apparent. One would have expected identical tellings each
time someone asked her to explain what happened. The variances that I described, therefore,
suggest Patient 1 did not rehearse her testimony and relied solely on her memory to relate the
Respondent’s misconduct.

‘Patient 1 also became emotional while describing what the Respondent did to her. She
developed shortness of breath when she began testifying about the events of January 24, 2014.
(T. at 209.) She started crying when speaking about how the Respondent would not stop ,
touching her vagina on that date despite her protests.>° Id.

Person 1 was present during the January 24, 2014 in the cubicle during Patient 1’s
examination. To the extent that he could see what the Respondent was doing, he supported
Patient 1°s version of events. I realize that Person 1 is Patient 1°s significant other, so he cannot
be deemed an impartial witness. Yet, he exhibited a matter-of-fact demeanor when he testified.

Therefore, I found him credible as well.

°° Y noticed that while Patient 1 was offering this emotionally-charged testimony, the Respondent was sitting at the
hearing room table with his attorneys, unfazed, with his head down taking notes. Just a few minutes later, he raised
his head and began staring at Patient 1 while she testified. When she noticed the Respondent staring at her, Patient 1
remarked, “He keep (sic) looking over here at me. It makes me very uncomfortable and he now (sic) it. He know
(sic) what he did.” (Test. Patient 1, T. at 212.) I interpret the Respondent's act of staring at Patient | while she was
testifying to be an intimidation tactic, particularly since he also stared at Patient 2, and she called him on it as well.
(Test. Patient 2, T. at 399.) These two acts of intimidation by the Respondent undermine his credibility.

56
