her buttocks. Dr. Williams asked about her pain and the previous procedures that she had
undergone and then started squeezing her thigh and worked his way up her leg until he got about
a tenth of an inch from her rectum and vagina. Patient 5 testified that the examination lasted
approximately 4 minutes, which she felt was a long time considering Dr. Williams was already
familiar with her history of pain. Patient 5 saw Dr. Williams on several occasions for injections
and procedures related to the treatment of her back pain, but at the appointment in question,
Patient 5 did not undergo a procedure. On the date in question, Patient 5 was certain that she was
alone in the room with Dr. Williams and that no other staff were present.

Patient 5 felt very uncomfortable during and after the examination, but she dismissed her
feelings at the time and continued seeing Dr. Williams because she continued to have pain. In
April of 2016, Patient 5’s daughter told Patient 5 that she saw a news story concerning sexual
assault allegations against Dr. Williams, which prompted Patient 5 to file a complaint with the
Board.

Dr. Williams argued that Patient 5 was not credible because she changed the date of the
alleged incident, which she stated was March 27, 2014, in the complaint to November 27, 2013,
at the OAH hearing and changed the location of the examination from Largo to Kensington.
Patient 5 acknowledged in her testimony that she gave the wrong date in her complaint and in
her interview with the Board investigator. She explained that, upon further review of her medical
records, the date could not have been March 27, 2014, because there were nurses present at that
appointment and the appointment that the inappropriate touching occurred happened when there
was no one else besides Patient 5 and Dr. Williams in the room.

The ALJ considered the discrepancies in Patient 5’s testimony pointed out by Dr.

Williams and, nevertheless, found Patient 5 credible. The ALJ placed more weight on the details

14
