that Patient 5 gave regarding the examination rather than on the accuracy of the dates and found
that the changes in Patient 5’s testimony did not undermine her credibility. On the other hand,
the ALJ did not find Dr. Williams to be credible. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s credibility
determinations with respect to Patient 5 and Dr. Williams.

Patient 5 was steadfast in her testimony about what occurred at her November 23, 2013,
office visit with Dr. Williams. She acknowledged the discrepancies in the dates she gave, yet
remained unwavering in her testimony as to what occurred at the appointment. The details of the
inappropriate touching remain consistent, and the ALJ who had the opportunity to make
demeanor based credibility findings found Patient 5 credible. The Panel agrees with the ALJ’s
finding that Dr. Williams committed a sexual violation as to Patient 5 and, as a result, Dr.
Williams is guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of Health Occ. §14-404(a)(3). Dr. Williams’s exception as to Patient 5 is denied.
Patient 6

Patient 6 began seeing Dr. Williams for lower back pain in May of 2011. She was
referred to Dr. Williams by another doctor because Dr. Williams performed epidural injections
under sedation. On one occasion, during a low back examination, Dr. Williams asked Patient 6 to
lower her jeans and he pressed on her spine until he got to her buttocks and then when he got
down to her buttocks he took her buttocks in his hands and groped her buttocks. Patient 6 was
clear that the “fatty part of [her] butt” was in Dr. Williams’s hands. Patient 6 was shown a You
Tube video of a lumbar spinal examination and she testified, “Dr. Williams did all of that, but
then his hands came down further. And then as he was going down my spine, my buttocks was
like in his hands, and that doctor [in the video] did not do that to the young lady.” The Panel

finds that Dr. Williams exceeded the boundaries of a medically indicated appropriate lower back

15
