the ALJ erred by refusing to rule on the motion to quash subpoena and failing to enforce an
active subpoena. Dr. Williams’s exceptions with respect to the enforcement of the subpoena and
questioning related to Facility A’s investigation, exceptions | and 2, are granted.°

Il. Procedural Defects (Exception 3)

During the Board investigator’s testimony, the State objected to Dr. Williams’s questions
pertaining to alleged defects in the Board’s investigation, including questions regarding why
certain witnesses were not interviewed and why certain documents were not obtained. Dr.
Williams argued that the questions should be permitted to challenge the substantive basis for the
charges that were developed as a result of the Board’s investigation. The ALJ concluded that the
questions relating to the Board’s investigation and process by which the charges were formulated
would not be permitted on the basis of Health Occ. 14-405(g), which prohibits the challenge of
any procedural defects alleged to have occurred prior to the filing of charges. The ALJ did,
however, permit Dr. Williams to proffer the testimony he believed he could have elicited if he
was permitted to engage in the line of questioning that was prohibited. Dr. Williams made 29
proffers concerning purported failures or deficiencies in the Board’s investigation. The ALJ
heard the proffers and accepted them into the record.

Health Occ. § 14-405 provides, “[t]he hearing of charges may not be stayed or challenged
by any procedural defects alleged to have occurred prior to the filing of charges.” In analyzing
the scope of Health Occ. § 14-405, the Court of Appeals explained:

To the extent that deficiencies or irregularities in the pre-charge proceedings

actually compromise the accused’s opportunity for a full and fair hearing on the

charges, in conformance with applicable Constitutional, statutory, or other legal

requirements, or suffice in some way to deprive the agency (or court) of true
jurisdiction to proceed, the accused is necessarily entitled, and must be allowed,

° The Facility A subpoena only pertained to documents relating to Patient 1. Rather than remanding this case back to
the ALJ for further proceedings, the Panel will simply not find a violation against Dr. Williams with respect to
Patient 1.
