[Patient 1], [Physician A], [Physician B], [Employee A] or Dr. Bryan Williams regarding the
complaint made by [Patient 1] and investigated by [Facility A].” On November 4, 2016, Facility
A filed a motion to quash the subpoena. On November 9, 2016, the ALJ issued a ruling on
Facility A’s motion to quash, stating that he considered the matter closed based on the untimely
filing of Facility A’s motion to quash and, therefore, did not rule on Facility A’s motion “one

way or another.”*

The ALJ acknowledged at the hearing that the subpoenas were not quashed,
but that he did “not consider the subpoena outstanding at this pointf[.]”

Dr. Williams argues that the ALJ erred by failing to enforce the subpoena that was
issued to Facility A for the notes associated with the internal investigation Facility A conducted
regarding the allegations made by Patient 1. Dr. Williams also argues that the ALJ erred by
refusing to allow him to question witnesses from Facility A regarding the investigation. The
State responded that the investigation conducted by Facility A was an independent investigation,
which was not part of the Board’s investigation and, therefore, not relevant to the proceedings in
the case.

The subpoena in question was issued by OAH on September 26, 2016. There is nothing
in the record to suggest that the subpoena was improperly served. Facility A filed a motion to
quash the subpoena on November 4, 2016, citing attorney-client and work product doctrine
privileges. The ALJ did not rule on the motion one way or another, but considered the matter
closed based on Facility A’s untimely filed motion to quash based on the deadline imposed by
the ALJ. Because, however, the subpoena was not quashed, there remained an active subpoena
that the ALJ failed to enforce. According to Dr. Williams, the subpoena, if enforced, could have

provided evidence to disprove Patient 1’s allegations. The Panel agrees with Dr. Williams that

° Following the prehearing conference, the ALJ issued an Order stating, in part: “If, however, no action occurs with
regard to a subpoena request for [Facility A]’s patient interview notes by October 31, 2016, I shall consider the
matter closed.”
