 

On June 14, 2013, in preparation for having another TFESI and LFJ injection series, the
Respondent performed a preoperative examination of Patient 1 ae...
Patient 1 testified that that examination similarly took place in a cubicle surrounded by privacy
curtains. The cubicle was located near the ASC where the Respondent would be administering
the injections to Patient 1’s spine. Before he examined Patient 1, to facilitate the injection
process, Patient 1 noted that the Respondent had her remove her street clothes and put ona
hospital gown.

Patient 1 explained that when the Respondent examined her on June 14, 2013, he had her
stand while he sat on a stool. He was facing her back. Patient 1 stated that the Respondent moved
his hands from the bottom of her legs upward to her thighs. He then moved up to Patient 1’s
buttocks region, where he placed his hands to the front of Patient 1’s body toward her vagina,
coming close to the vaginal opening. Although her hearing testimony and her interview remarks
to Board Investigator Doreen Noppinger varied slightly, it is certain that Patient 1 exclaimed
something close to “Man, what are you doing?” when the Respondent’s hands approached
Patient l’s vagina. According to Patient 1, the Respondent reacted to Patient 1°s exclamation by
saying, “It’s all right. Don’t worry. It’s all right.” Patient 1 was sedated soon afterward to receive
her injections.

Patient 1 had other visits with the Respondent after June 14, 2013 that were uneventful.
On January 24, 2014, Patient 1, though, appeared at the ascinf. teceive a steroid
inj ection/cooled radiofrequency ablation of lateral branch. She invited her boyfriend, Person 1, to
remain in the room with her while the Respondent examined her. She testified that she wanted’
Person | there because she feared the Respondent might again touch her in inappropriate places.
Patient 1 had, at this point, told Person 1 about ‘what she believed were the Respondent’s

questionable examination techniques.
