The Respondent, however, argues that flaws in the Board’s investigation process, the
process that formed the basis of the charges that the State pursued during the hearing, prejudiced
him, so much so, that his ability to have a fair hearing was irreparably undermined. He maintains
the Boards investigation was deficient in two fundamental ways:

° The allegations of the complainant/patients are not supported by
any contemporaneous corroboration.

° The Board’s investigation lacked impartiality.
The Respondent cites Rosov v. Maryland Board of Dental Examiners, 163 Md. App. 98
(2005), in support of his argument.”° With regard to Rosov, the Respondent’s counsel argues,
“[TJhere’s information in that case that indicates that the investigation here was deficierit and
deficient in a way that does impact [the Respondent’s] due process rights as he is sitting here
today defending his livelihood and his ability to practice medicine in Maryland.” (T. at 1457.) 1
cannot discern what information the Respondent is referring to in Rosov. In Rosov, the
respondent-dentist’s major complaint was that Maria Bartrem, the Dental Board’s investigator,
‘was not present at the hearing and, therefore, could not authenticate her report. Dr. Rosov noted
“that such an unauthenticated hearsay report would be inadmissible in a judicial trial. Rosov, 163
Md, App. at 115. The Court of Special Appeals agreed with that assertion, but noted that the
respondent-dentist was participating in an administrative hearing, not a judicial trial. Therefore,
the investigator’s report was admissible under the relaxed rules of evidence that apply in
administrative proceedings. Id.
, The respondent-dentist in Rosov also contended, “[T]he report reveals Bartrem’s biased
viewpoint, and cites ‘major defects in the manner of the investigation, including the participation
of the State but not Dr. Rosov, the documentation of the investigation, the manner of how
6 The Respondent also cited MacKoul v, Maryland State Board of Physicians, No. 2607, 2016 WL 281592 (Mad. Ct.

Spec. App. Jan, 20, 2016) (Unreported), for the proposition that a charged physician must show prejudice to
establish a due process challenge.

46
