conclusions were reached, etc.” Jd. The court rejected the Respondent’s contention and stated
the following in doing so:

“[Dr. Rosov] provides no support in the record for his allegation that the

investigation was substantially defective. He presented no evidence that Bartrem’s

manner of investigation was faulty, nor does the record support such a conclusion.

Rosov rests his argument on the fact of Bartrem’s employment by the Board and

interaction with the staff during the investigation. Lf that were that the standard,

any such report, by any agency charged with the enforcement of professional

standards, would be suspect.”

Id, at 115-16.

Here, Ms. Noppinger was present and testified about her findings. She related Patient 7’s
testimony in lieu of Patient 7 testifying because, presumably, Patient 7 was incarcerated and
unavailable to appear at the hearing. Yet, as the Rosov court emphasized, hearsay is admissible in
administrative hearings. Id, at 116. Additionally, just as in Rosov, Ms. Noppinger prepared
interim investigative reports summarizing her notes; she did not offer conclusions about whether
she believed that the Respondent engaged in acts of misconduct, (Resp. Ex. 16.) For the most
part, when she testified, Ms. Noppinger also related only what interviewees told her. She also
: jdentified (i.e., authenticated) the transcripts of the patient-interviews that she and her co-
investigators conducted, which the State offered as evidence. Therefore, the Respondent argues
that Ms. Noppinger’s investigative reports were deficient for essentially the same reasons that
Dr. Rosov alleged that’ Ms. Bartrem’s investigative report was deficient in his case, and the Court
of Special Appeals rejected Dr. Rosov’s arguments.

As I discuss in detail below, there admittedly were discrepancies between what many of
the patients told Ms. Noppinger and what they testified to at the hearing. These kinds of
discrepancies are to be expected given that some of the earliest instances of the Respondent’s

misconduct took place in late 2012. Memories can become clouded and details lost with that

clouding. The Respondent, as noted, complained about this time lag (lack of contemporaneous

47
