I will address the following: (a) the Respondent’s assertion ‘that alleged deficiencies in
the Board’s investigation and charging document prejudiced him such that he was denied due
process, which I have concluded is not the case; (b) the Respondent’s conduct vis-a-vis each
patient as it relates to section 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) of the Acts and (c) the Respondent’s false
reports/misrepresentations as they relate to section 14-404(a)(11) and (36), After I conclude
those discussions, { will turn to the sanction that I believe the Board should adopt.

0. ' Alleged Deficiencies in the Board’s Investigation and Charging Document.

From the preliminary stages of this proceeding—and during the hearing itself—the
. Respondent steadfastly asserts that the Board conducted an inadequate and incomplete
investigation. He maintains that the Board’s deficient investigation prejudiced him and, thus,
denied him due process, The Respondent further asserts that the State’s amendment of the
already “Amended Charges” during the hearing process also prejudiced him because he could
not adequately defend himself against charges that continuously changed. The State counters that
whatever took place during the investigatory phase of this proceeding could not have prejudiced
the Respondent, because the law precludes any attack on what occurred during the investigatory
process. (See below.) Moreover, the State avers that its corrections to the Amended Charges also
could not have prejudiced the Respondent because, during the hearing, the State only withdrew
certain charges or modified them to comport with the evidence. It did so when it discovered that
witness testimony did not support the Board’s charges as written. (The State did not add any
charges.)

With regard to the Respondent’s contention that the Board’s inadequate or incomplete
investigation prejudiced him, section 14-405(g) of the Act states, “The hearing of charges may
not be stayed or challenged by any procedural defects alleged to have occurred prior to the filing

of charges.” Health Occ, § 14-405(g) (2014).
