hearing and, therefore, would not be available for cross-examination or for the ALJ to assess the
witness’s credibility. Dr. Williams did not subpoena Patient 7 or otherwise attempt to secure her
presence at the hearing. The ALJ determined that the hearsay evidence was sufficiently reliable
and admitted the documents pertaining to Patient 7 over Dr. Williams’s objections. Dr. Williams
argues that the ALJ erred in admitting the hearsay statements of Patient 7 and documents
concerning Patient 7 through the Board’s investigator because Patient 7 did not testify at the
OAH hearing.

“[W]ithin the context of administrative proceedings, it is well-settled that administrative
agencies are not bound by technical common law rules of evidence.” Para v. 1691 Ltd. P’ship,
211 Md. App. 335, 379 (2013) (internal quotation marks omitted). The Administrative Procedure
Act provides that “[e]vidence may not be excluded solely on the basis that it is hearsay.” Md.
Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-213(c). Further, “[a]lthough we recognize the basic tenet of fairness
in administrative adjudications is the requirement of an opportunity for reasonable cross-
examination, fairness also requires the complaining party to avail itself of the opportunity to
cross-examine.” Para, 211 Md. App. at 384 (internal citations and quotation marks omitted). “As
a consequence, the complaining party must subpoena testimony or a witness of the production of
any evidence when the administrative proceeding permits.” Jd. In this case, Dr. Williams did not
subpoena Patient 7 to testify at the hearing or attempt to conduct a deposition or interview of the
patient prior to the OAH hearing. Dr. Williams had the opportunity to cross-examine the Board
investigator regarding Patient 7 and called other witnesses to discredit the testimony of Patient 7.

The Panel agrees with the ALJ that the transcript of Patient 7’s interview was properly
admitted, but gives the evidence little weight based on the inconsistencies in Patient 7’s story and

the inability for both parties to question Patient 7 about the inconsistencies at the OAH hearing.
