On May 14, 2021, Dr. Williams applied for the reinstatement of his medical license. On

December 1, 2021, Panel A convened as a Reinstatement Inquiry Panel to consider Dr.

Williams’s petition for reinstatement of his medical license after revocation. The Panel reviewed

Dr. Williams’s application for reinstatement with attachments, Dr. Williams’s responses to

questions from the Board, reports from specialists; a response from the administrative prosecutor

recommending denial of Dr. Williams’s reinstatement, and Dr. Williams’s prior Board Orders.

The Panel also heard oral presentations from Dr. Williams, his counsel, and from the

administrative prosecutor.

Il. APPLICATION FOR REINSTATEMENT

On May 4, 2021, the Board received Dr. Williams’s application for reinstatement. The

Board sent Dr. Williams a series of questions and requests including the following:

1.

led to his license revocation, Dr. Williams simply listed the grounds for which he was disciplined

’ What is your understanding of the nature and circumstances of your conduct, which

resulted in the revocation of your Maryland license?

What is your understanding of the Board’s concerns with respect to your conduct?

Have you accepted responsibility for the action(s) resulting in the revocation of your
license?

What steps have you taken to lessen the likelihood of recurrence? What steps would you
take to lessen the likelihood of recurrence should your license be reinstated?

What are your plans for returning to the practice of medicine as a physician in the State
of Maryland and what is your proposed practice setting? Do you have any employment
prospects lined up in the event your license is reinstated?

What efforts have you made to maintain your competency to practice medicine in your
area of specialty (i.e. continuing education credits)?

Additionally, the Board asked:

For character and fitness question (n), please provide further explanation regarding your
termination from [Employer] for not having a chaperone when an exam was conducted,
including why you were required to have a chaperone during exams and when the
incident(s) that lead to your termination occurred.

In his written response to the question asking about his understanding of his conduct that
