Date: lol25 [2622

Mark D, Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
John M, McDonald, M.D. License Number: D66757
Case Number: 2222-0038A

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ, (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D66757, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland,

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging mismanagement of a
patient’s care and subsequent falsification of the patient’s medical records upon knowledge
of the patient’s death and that the Board initiated an investigation into the allegations. I
have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current retirement.
I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall
be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(11) (willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
medicine), (22) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality medical
care), and (40) (fails to keep adequate medical records).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call

 
