Vv. Factual Discrepancies

Dr. Williams argues that the ALJ ignored certain facts and data that demonstrated that the
allegations of the seven patients were not credible. He contends that he performed appropriate
standard low back examinations on each of the seven patients, which were documented in the
medical records. The exceptions made with respect to Patient’s 2-7 will be discussed below.’
Patient 2

Patient 2 was seen by Dr. Williams on August 18, 2014, for pain in her spine. Dr.
Williams asked the patient to lie down on the examination table and palpated from the top of her
spine to the bottom, asking the patient if she was in any pain at various points during the
examination. Patient 2 indicated that she was not in pain except that it was a little uncomfortable
in her waist area. Dr. Williams continued to go lower and asked the patient to unbutton her jeans.
Dr. Williams grabbed her underwear and tried to pull them down. When he was not able to pull
them down, he instructed Patient 2 to pull down her underwear so that her entire buttocks were
exposed. Dr. Williams continued to palpate until he reached her anus. Dr. Williams put on a
glove and started touching her inside her anus. Dr. Williams did not use any lubricant and no
chaperone was present for the examination. Patient 2 pulled up her pants and sat on the
examination table while Dr. Williams was taking notes. Dr. Williams then asked Patient 2 to
unbutton her pants a second time and he helped her to pull her pants down and expose her entire
buttocks again. This time, Dr. Williams put on gloves and stuck a quarter of his finger into the
patient’s anus, again, without using lubricant or having a chaperone present. Dr. Williams did not
explain to the patient on either occasion why it was necessary for him to insert his finger into her

anus.

7 As discussed above, the Panel did not find a violation as to Patient 1 due to procedural irregularities concerning the
motion to quash and, therefore, the Panel need not address any alleged factual discrepancies related to the testimony
of Patient 1.
