‘According to the Respondent, Patient 2 also should not be believed because her testimony
is uncorroborated. Patient 2 testified that she told her husband about how the Respondent
‘touched her in her around her anus immediately after the event occurred on the evening of |

August 18, 2014. Yet, Ms. Noppinger never interviewed Patient 2’s husband on behalf of the

Board, nor did the State call Patient 2’s husband to testify. When | iii
interviewed Patient 2 over the telephone in October 2014, eh

Compliance Officer for the|

 

 

articipated in that interview. Again,

- Ms. Noppinger never interviewed Ms. i: did the State call

- to testify. The Respondent noted that Ms.

    

erved as a scribe; Patient 2’s native
language is Spanish, and she used the word “anals,” not anus. He asserted that he only went as
far as the very top of Patient 2’s gluteal cleft when he examined her, which in anatomical terms,
is far from the anus, “given [Patient 2’s] body habitus."

I find the Respondent’s attacks on Patient 2’s credibility are meritless. As noted earlier,
when Patient 2 testified, she did so emotionally, exhibiting considerable distress, She did not
wish to be at an administrative hearing testifying against the Respondent. At the end of her
testimony, she repeated twice, “I just want this over.” (Test Patient 2, T. at 356,) Accordingly, I
conclude that Patient 2 is not someone who would subject herself to the ordeal of testifying at a
hearing simply to enhance a disability claim, which is primarily based on a physical, rather than
a mental health-related issue. The lack of corroboration by Patient 2’s husband and Ms.

| Patient 2’s testimony has no significance. Patient 2’s testimony is corroborated
by her medical records, which show that she visited the Respondent on August 18, 2014, and by

her October 15, 2014 e-mail to oii in which she complained about the Respondent

sexually abusing her, almost as an afterthought. Patient 2’s focus at the time she wrote that e-

3 Patient 2 has a wide girth.
