female patients.” Panel A adopts the findings of fact made by the ALJ for Patients 2-6 as well as
the facts surrounding Dr. Williams’s termination from Facility A, his employment with Facility
B, and his application to Facility C. The ALJ’s Proposed Findings of Fact 1 — 8, 44 — 171, and
193 - 206 are incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set forth in full,
except as otherwise provided herein.’ See attached ALJ Proposed Decision, Exhibit 1. The
Findings of Fact were proven by the preponderance of the evidence.

EXCEPTIONS

Dr. Williams filed five exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision and, additionally,
challenged the ALJ’s factual and credibility findings related to the seven patients who made
allegations against Dr. Williams. Each of Dr. Williams’s exceptions will be discussed in turn.

IL Facility A Subpoena and Investigation (Exceptions 1 and 2)

On August 18, 2016, the ALJ conducted a scheduling conference at OAH and indicated
to the parties that Dr. Williams could ask OAH to issue subpoenas to Facility A to produce its
investigation notes pertaining to the in-house investigation conducted based on Patient 1’s
complaint. The ALJ stated, “i]t is up to [Facility A] either to comply with or move to quash the
subpoena.” On September 19, 2016, the ALJ held a prehearing conference to address, in part,
any dispute that might arise from Dr. Williams’s subpoena for Facility A’s investigative notes.

On September 26, 2016, OAH issued seven subpoenas requested by Dr. Williams,
including one to Facility A. The subpoena issued to Facility A required a Facility A employee to
appear at the hearing scheduled for November 14, 2016, and produce “[a]ny/all notes made by
2 For purposes of confidentiality, the patients involved in this case will be identified as Patients 1-7.

> Except as indicated in this Order, the Panel does not adopt the discussion section of the ALJ’s Proposed Decision.

“ Dr. Williams does not take exception to the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law that he
willfully filed a false report or record in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11), and
willfully made a false representation when making application for licensure, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(36). The Panel adopts the ALJ’s findings of fact and conclusions of law with respect to these two charges,

3
