According to Patient 2, when the Respondent had reached her buttocks, he asked her to
unbutton her blue jeans, so he could further palpate down her spine. At this point, she stated he
grabbed her panties and tried to pull them down. When he could not get them down, he directed
Patient 2 to do pull them down to the point that she was exposing her entire buttocks. The
Respondent continued to palpate until he reached Patient 2’s anus. Patient 2 testified that
although the Respondent was gentle when he first touched her anus, she felt uncomfortable.

After examining a region around Patient 2’s anus, the Respondent reached for some
gloves that were sitting on the sink in the room, put them on, and began touching inside of
Patient 2’s rectum. Patient 2 reported that he'did so without using any cream or lubricant. Patient
2 testified that she continued to feel uncomfortable, that is, uncomfortable because she felt
violated and embarrassed by what the Respondent was doing.

After a nurse interrupted the Respondent’s examination of Patient 2 by alerting him
through the closed door that another doctor wanted to see him, Patient 2 stated that the
Respondent directed her to stand up again. Patient 2 reported that the Respondent positioned her
sideways and positioned his legs between her legs. He asked Patient 2 to unbutton her jeans one
more time, because he “wanted to make sure of something.”

Patient 2 testified that the Respondent once again had her pull her jeans and panties down
to the point where her buttocks were fully exposed. She stated he put new gloves on, and faced
her, placing about one quarter of a finger inside her anus, and he asked Patient 2 whether it hurt.
According to Patient 2, she said, “Not really.” Patient 2 was clear that the Respondent never
explained to her why he needed to examine her anus.

Patient 2 noted that although she never saw the Respondent again, she attempted to
contact him by e-mail, because she was still seeking his guidance regarding treatment of her back

pain. On one occasion, he responded, but did not answer her questions. Other times, he did not

63
