 

to raise those deficiencies or irregularities, notwithstanding the statute or rule.
Beyond that, however, the statute means what it says and must be given effect.

Board of Physician Quality Assur. v. Levitsky, 353 Md. 188, 206 (1999).

Dr. Williams argues that the ALJ erred in refusing to allow him to cross examine the
Board’s investigator regarding alleged deficiencies in the Board’s investigation. Dr. Williams
contends that he should have been permitted to question the Board’s investigator about facts and
witnesses she had not developed to establish that there was potentially exculpatory information
that was missing from the Board’s investigation.

The Panel agrees with Dr. Williams that alleged deficiencies in the Board’s investigation
are not procedural defects and, therefore, Health Occ. § 14-405 is not applicable. The ALJ erred
by disallowing questioning regarding the sufficiency of the Board’s investigation on the basis of
Health Occ. § 14-405. Dr. Williams’s exception in that respect is granted.

The Panel, however, finds that Dr. Williams had the opportunity to subpoena witnesses
who were not called or interviewed by the Board and to explore any evidence that he deemed
was missing from the Board’s investigation in his own case in chief. Any alleged deficiencies in
the Board’s investigation have no bearing on this Panel’s ultimate determination regarding the
sufficiency of the evidence to support the charges. The Panel bases its findings on the evidence
contained in the record, not the lack thereof. Accordingly, Dr. Williams has suffered no prejudice
from the lack of cross-examination of the Board’s investigator on the line of questioning at issue,
and, therefore, it is not necessary to remand for further proceedings.

I. Hearsay Statements (Exception 4)

During the testimony of the Board’s investigator, the State sought to admit the complaint

filed by Patient 7, medical records of Patient 7, and transcript of Patient 7’s interview with the

Board investigator. Dr. Williams objected because Patient 7 would not be testifying at the
