According to Patient 1, on January 24, 2014, the Respondent had her disrobe and put on a
hospital gown. The Respondent then examined Patient 1 in a cubicle similar to the one that he
examined her in on June 14, 2013. There was a bed and a chair inside the cubicle, and, just as on
November 21, 2012 and June 14, 2013, the cubicle was surrounded by two movable curtains.

Patient 1 explained that the Respondent began his examination by having her stand with
her arms spread out in front of her. He sat on a movable stool and, with gloved hands, he started
palpating at the base of Patient 1’s legs and continued to move his hands up her body until they
reached underneath her hospital gown. Patient 1 asserted that he kept moving up her legs until
his hands touched her vagina. Once there, Patient 1 described the Respondent putting his fingers
inside her vagina, and while doing so, she maintained that his knuckles touched her clitoris.

According to Patient 1, when she felt the Respondent’s fingers inside her vagina, she
became distressed. She asked the Respondent “Why are you doing this? You already determined
there’s nothing there triggering any pain. So, why you keep doing this?” Patient 1 insisted that
the Respondent did not respond to anything she said. He ignored her and continued to feel
around her vagina.

After completing his examination, Patient 1 and Person 1, who,.as noted, was in the
examination room the entire time that the Respondent was examining Patient 1, both saw the
Respondent take off his gloves, sniff them, roll them up, and discard them in the trash. They also
noted that when he exited to the hallway, he threw his arms in the air as he walked away from
the examination cubicle.

I find Patient 1’s testimony credible. Patient 1’s description of the Respondent’s conduct
was detailed, and it has remained consistent in all important respects for a long time. | agree with
the Respondent that Patient 1’s hearing testimony varied somewhat from what she told Board

Investigator Doreen Noppinger on July 8, 2015.1 will also acknowledge that Patient 1 had some

55
