ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, ifthe disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine
upon the Respondent.

Violation of March 24, 2020 Consent Order

Following his enrollment in MPRP, Dr. Hanley signed a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement.on April 10, 2020. Dr. Hanley agreed to obtain any evaluations as recommended by
MPRP, abide by the Rehabilitation Plan, and follow all MPRP recommendations. On July 14,
2020, MPRP notified Board staff that Dr. Hanley’s case had been closed for cause and that he had
been discharged from the program due to his failure to obtain a specific evaluation, as directed by
MPRP. On August 4, 2020, the Board sent a letter to Dr. Hanley requesting, by August 18, 2020,
a written response to MPRP’s closure of his case for cause. In a written response dated August 18,
2020, Dr. Hanley acknowledged that he had not obtained or completed the evaluation as directed
by MPRP.
Show Cause Hearing — November 18, 2020

On September 28, 2020, Panel B issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show
Cause based on this alleged violation. The Panel conducted a show cause hearing on November
18, 2020, at which Dr, Hanley was represented by counsel. At the hearing, Dr, Hanley did not
dispute his refusal to comply with MPRP’s directive that he complete a specific evaluation. He
listed the terms and conditions of his Consent Order with which he had already complied,
acknowledged that he had not yet completed the evaluation, and stated that he was now willing to
fully comply with MPRP and complete the evaluation. The State emphasized that Dr. Hanley’s

failure to obtain the evaluation was an intentional choice, and that Dr. Hanley understood the
