engaged in sexual intercourse with a patient on three separate occasions and later prescribed
abortive medications to her for a suspected pregnancy.

March 24, 2020 Consent Order

To resolve the disciplinary charges against him, Dr. Hanley agreed to enter into a Consent
Order with Panel B, wherein Panel B concluded that Dr. Hanley was guilty of immoral and
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i)
and (ii), and that he violated Health Occ. § 1-212(a) and COMAR 10.32.17.03A and B. Panel B
imposed a reprimand, placed Dr. Hanley on probation for a minimum of one year, subject to certain
terms and conditions, including requirements that he enroll in the Maryland Professional

Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan as follows:

* * *

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals,
tules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreements(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP.

* * *

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions including
terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreements(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Consent Order.

The Consent Order further stated:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of
the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a
disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines that there is no genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further
