Robert S. Hanley, Jr., M.D.

pac: \Wh4d03\

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4th Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Robert S. Hanley, Jr., M.D,

License Number: D66921

Case No. 7721-0079

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §14-403,
I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,
License Number D66921, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license,
I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the ““Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-
101 ef seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as
an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that, on March 24, 2020, I entered into a Consent Order with
Panel B of the Board. One of the conditions of the Consent Order required that I be placed on
probation for a minimum period of one-year and enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and comply with conditions of a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement. On January 6, 2021, Panel B found that I violated the terms and conditions of the
March 24, 2020 Consent Order by failing to comply with the terms of my MPRP Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement, extended by six months the one-year probation imposed by the March
24, 2020 Consent Order, and ordered that I reenroll in the MPRP as a term of that probation. A
copy of the Order After Show Cause Hearing is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment
1. Lreenrolled in MPRP and initially communicated my intent to comply with the terms of the
program, but, on March 2, 2021, I notified MPRP that I wished to withdraw from the program
