Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Robert S. Hanley, Jr., M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

and MPRP discharged me from the program for cause, on March 9, 2021 , for failing to attend the
recommended evaluation.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
rather than continue to participate in the MPRP at this time. I acknowledge that by declining to
participate further in the MPRP and failing to attend the recommended evaluation, I have
violated the terms and conditions of the Order After Show Cause Hearing. I acknowledge that
the Order After Show Cause Hearing remains and will continue to be a valid Order of the Board.
Upon acceptance of this Letter of Surrender, however, I will not be required to comply with the
conditions of the Order After Show Cause Hearing or of the March 24, 2020 Consent Order as
long as I do not have or possess a medical license in Maryland.

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution for violating the Order After Show Cause Hearing. |
acknowledge that if this case proceeded to a hearing, the State would be able to prove that I

violated the Order After Show Cause Hearing by a preponderance of the evidence and that such
violation shall be treated as proven.

1 understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a hearing
to contest any charges related to my violation of the Order After Show Cause Hearing. In
waiving my right to contest the charges, | also am waiving the right to be represented by counsel
at the hearing, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and

all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
a circuit court.

{ understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in the event I
would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that
would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 e¢ seq.
(2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

1 further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose terms and conditions in
conformity with or in addition to those set forth in the Order After Show Cause Hearing. |
further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked. I understand
that I may apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License no earlier than five years from the
date of this Letter of Surrender.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever, Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
