information from MPRP records and files in a public order. Dr. Andrews shall not
withdraw her release/consent;

4. Dr. Andrews shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of D.
Andrews’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Dr. Andrews and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Dr. Andrews, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Andrews shall not withdraw her release/consent;

5. Dr. Andrews’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a
violation of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Andrews shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is

further

ORDERED that after a minimum of three years has passed and Dr. Andrews has fully and

satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of probation, Dr. Andrews may submit a
written petition for termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may
be terminated through an order of a disciplinary panel. Dr. Andrews may be required to appear
before the disciplinary panel to discuss her petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may
grant the petition to terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Dr.
Andrews has successfully complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and if there
are no pending complaints related to a violation of her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement with
MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Andrews allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition

imposed by this Order, Dr. Andrews shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the

disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall

be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If the

10
