Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of
this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Andrews shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after a minimum of one year has passed and Dr. Andrews has fully and
satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension, Dr. Andrews may submit
a written petition for termination of suspension. After consideration of the petition, the suspension
may be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel. Dr. Andrews may be required to
appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss her petition for termination. The disciplinary panel
may grant the petition to terminate the suspension through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Dr.
Andrews has fully and satisfactorily with all the relevant terms and conditions of the suspension,
and if there are no pending complaints related to a violation of her Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement with MPRP; and it is further

ORDERED that, upon termination of the suspension, Dr. Andrews shall be placed on a
new period of PROBATION? for a minimum period of THREE (3) YEARS. During the
probationary period, Dr. Andrews shall comply with the following terms and conditions:

1. Dr. Andrews shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in her Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

2. Dr. Andrews shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP referrals,
rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

3. Dr. Andrews shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the

Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant

? If Dr. Andrews’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.
