(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order After Show Cause Hearing
to hold herself out to the public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of her name or provider number by any
health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(e) prescribe or dispense medications;
(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.
(2) Dr. Andrews shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program

(“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) Dr. Andrews shall continue her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be entered into an amended
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan,
as determined by MPRP;

(b) Dr. Andrews shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
patticipate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(c) Dr. Andrews shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to
authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records
and files in a public order. Dr. Andrews shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(d) Dr. Andrews shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.¢., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of Dr. Andrews’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning Dr. Andrews and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Andrews,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation
and treatment records. Dr. Andrews shall not withdraw her release/consent;

(ce) Dr. Andrews’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions,
including the terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation

8
