Susan G. Andrews, M.D.

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4"" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Susan G. Andrews, M.D.
License Number: D67708
Case Number: 7723-0058

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice *
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D67708, effective immediately. |
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Health Occ.§ 14-401 et seq, and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective .
date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

1 understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A’) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation based on my violation of
my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement (“PRA”) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
(“PRP”) with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and the Order
After Show Cause Hearing dated November 22, 2019. On February 24, 2023, Panel A.
issued a second Order After Show Cause Hearing that suspended my license for a minimum
of one (1) year and required that I continue to participate in MPRP based on a second
instance of failure to comply with my PRA and PRP.

I acknowledge that I again violated my PRA and PRP and the February 24, 2023
Order After Show Cause Hearing.

Ihave decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland
because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the February 24, 2023
Order After Show Cause Hearing and to avoid prosecution for failing to comply with the
