moral turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation of a license
on the certification by the Office of the Attorney General.

Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(b) (2021 Repl. Vol.). Attached to the Petition were certified
copies of the criminal information, docket entries, statement of facts, transcripts of the plea
agreement and sentencing proceedings, and the judgment.

On March 3, 2023, Dr. Raley filed a response to the Petition and show cause order through
counsel. Dr. Raley stated that he “does not intend to object and show cause as to the Board’s right
to revoke his medical license.” Dr. Raley acknowledged that he pled guilty to one count of
conspiracy to receive health care kickbacks and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and
asked that the Board not impose a permanent revocation of his license.

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel B issues this Final
Decision and Order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1).

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:

1. Thomas Raley, M.D., was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on February 27, 2009, under license number D68746.

2. On November 19, 2021, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia, Case Number 1:21-cr-00246, Dr. Raley was charged with one count of
conspiracy to receive health care kickbacks, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371, and one
count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349,! On
November 19, 2021, Dr. Raley pled guilty to both counts in the indictment.

3. The statement of facts that formed the basis of the guilty plea included the following:

 

118 U.S.C. § 371 states, “If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the United States, or
to defraud the United States, or any agency thereof in any manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such
persons do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more
than five years, or both.”

Dr. Raley violated 18 U.S.C. § 1349 by “knowingly and with the intent to defraud, devising and intending to devise,
a scheme and artifice to defraud insurance companies and for obtaining money and property by means of materially
false and fraudulent pretenses, representations, and promises, transmitting and causing to be transmitted by means of
wire communication in interstate commerce, certain writings, signs, signals, and sounds for the purpose of executing
the scheme or artifice.”
