Jersey, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Virginia, and Vermont. Her prior medical

licenses included Arizona, Delaware, Texas, and Minnesota.

3. The Respondent was board-certified in dermatology and dermatopathology
medicine.
4. At all times relevant, the Respondent resided in Georgia, and was the co-owner

of a pathology laboratory (“Laboratory A’) with her husband (a non-physician) located
in Atlanta, Georgia.
5. At all times relevant, the Respondent was the founder and principal owner ofa

dermatology and dermatopathology practice, (‘Practice A”) headquartered in Lilburn,

Georgia.
6. The Respondent’s husband, a non-physician, was the Manager of Practice A.
7. At all times relevant, Practice A owned offices in several different states including

Pennsylvania, Georgia and Maryland.’

8. In September 2011, Practice A purchased two of its Maryland locations from a
dermatologist, Physician A; specifically, in Westminster (‘Location A”) and Eldersburg
(‘Location B”).

9. At times relevant, Practice A owned two additional locations in Maryland; in

Cockeysville (“Location C’) and Chevy Chase (“Location D’).

_

3 In order to maintain confidentiality, facility, patient and employee names are not used in this document.

4 The Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS’) filed suit against the Practice A in United
States ex rel. Ross v. Family Dermatology of Penn., P.C., No, 1:114-cv-2413 (N.D. Ga.); United States ex
rel. Baucom v. Family Dermatology of Penn., P.C., No. 1:11-cv-4260 (N.D. Ga.), and United States ex rel.
Milstein v. Family Dermatology, P.C., 1:13-ev-01027 (N.D. Ga.) alleging violations of the False Claims
Act. Sometime around April 2015 Practice A entered into a confidential settlement agreement with DHHS
as a resolution. On or about May 30, 2016, the Respondent was excluded from participation in Medicare
and Medicaid and all Federal Health Programs for breach of Practice A’s settlement agreement with
DHHS. Consequently, the Respondent closed several of Practice A’s locations.

11
