AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if and when the MPRP determines that the
Respondent is safe to practice medicine and if the Respondent has complied with the
conditions above, the Respondent may petition the Reinstatement Inquiry Panel to lift
the suspension of the Respondent's license. Upon reinstatement, Disciplinary Panel B
may impose conditions on the Respondent's return to practice, and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of probation or this Consent Order, including a failure to comply with any term
or condition of the MPRP Rehabilitation Agreement and Rehabilitation Plan, the
Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of
the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to a material
fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel B;
and it is further :

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or a disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of
probation or this Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions,
or suspend or revoke the Respondent's license to practice medicine in Maryland. The
Board or a disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth
above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice
Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il §§ 14-101—14-702, and all laws and regulations
governing the practice of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that, unless stated otherwise in the order, any time period prescribed
in this order begins when the Consent Order goes into effect. The Consent Order goes
into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Executive Director, who signs on behalf of
Panel B; and it is further.

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document pursuant to Md. Code

Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4—101 et seq. (2014).
12J2b [2017 biartere L
Date Christine A. Farrelly /
Maryland State Board of Physicians

  

 

Executive Director
