by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il § 14-

404(a)(3(ii), (4) and (33), respectively.

ORDER

 

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel B,

hereby

ORDERED that the Respondent is SUSPENDED until such time as she
demonstrates to the Panel's satisfaction that she is competent to practice medicine; and

it is further

ORDERED

1.

Within 10 days, the Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). The Respondent shall enter into a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
with MPRP. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply
with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not
limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with
MPRP and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and toxicology screening as directed by MPRP;

The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested or required by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall
sign the release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and
written disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any and all MPRP
records and files possessed by MPRP. The Respondent shall also sign
any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to exchange with
(i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of the
Respondent's current therapists: and treatment providers) verbal and
written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP
is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including,
but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol treatment records;

The Respondent shall be responsible for assuring that any treatment
provider(s) submit written reports to the MPRP and to the Board at least
once every three (3) months regarding her attendance, progress, payment
of fees, and recommendations as to the continuation, frequency, and/or
termination of treatment. The Respondent shall sign any consent forms
required to authorize Disciplinary Panel B and the MPRP to receive written
reports from her treating mental health and health professionals or any
treatment providers.
