8. On December 26, 2017, Panel B and the Respondent entered into the
Consent Order, in which Panel B concluded that the Respondent was guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii); is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); and failed to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the
Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33).

9. Under the Consent Order, Panel B suspended the Respondent’s medical
license until such time as she demonstrated that she was competent to practice medicine.”
Also, under the Consent Order, the following terms and conditions were ordered:

L. Within 10 days, the Respondent shall enroll in [a Board- -
approved program, referred to infra as the “Program” ].
The Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with [the Program]. The
Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate andcomply .
with all of [the Program’s] referrals, rules and
requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms
and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s), and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered with [the Program], and shall fully participate |
and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by [the Program];

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written
release/consent forms required by the Board and [the
Program]. The Respondent shall sign the ©
release/consent forms to authorize the Board to
authorize [the Program] to make verbal and written
disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any
and all [Program] records and files possessed by [the

2 Because the Respondent’s license expired in September 2017, and was not renewed, Panel B tolled the
imposition of the suspension and terms and conditions until such time as the Respondent reinstated her
medical license. See COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3).
