veracity of the complaint lodged by [Patient A] due to the mental
state potentially induced by these anesthetic agents. (State # 34)

The doubt sewn by each expert’s concerns about the reliability of recollections derived
under the influence of the combination of Midazolam and Ketamine during Patient A’sD &C
render her recitation of the alleged improper touching highly questionable. Even if only twelve
percent of Ketamine users have been documented to encounter the most severe side effects of the
medication, the suggestion, recognized by both experts, that Patient A’s description could be
compromised by delusion, precipitates my reluctance to find that the improper action actually
occurred.

Of fhe three participants in the procedure, I found Ms. QP he most credible, Her
testimony was calm and consistent. She methodically telated the series of events in which, even
after two attempts, the Respondent was unable to Suction enough tissue to confirm the
termination of Patient A’s pregnancy, Ms, xplained how she examined the contents
extracted from Patient A at each attempt, and even drew a diagram of the room to explain where
all the participants were located, (Resp. #20)" Given the timeline, I found her description
plausible, and believed her account that she briefly left the room to examine the second sample,
with Patient A and the Respondent remaining in the examination Toom unaccompanied,

Talso found Ms aay description of the Respondents repeated attempts to conform
her description of the procedure to his own persuasive and disturbing. Clearly, the Respondent |
had an interest in securing Ms aay agreement as to the timeline of events and Patient A’s
reaction. His vents at BB towed his unpleasant experience with Dr. QB nd Patient

B’s complaint of inappropriate touching. However, even if the Respondent’s motivation was to

 
   
 
  

a Although, on rebuttal, Ms MD state that although she originally testified that when she Tretumed to the

the Respondent was standing by a i tmbered that he remained seated on the stool at the base of

the table, I found this change Ml st ce there was little distance between the stool and the cabinet.
le credibili

 

This difference did not erod:
