simply avoid another investigation into what he considered a false accusation, the pressure he
exerted on Ms. ae... misplaced and unseemly,
Additionally, I found the Respondent’s explanation of the discrepancy between his and
Ms. EER collection of events puzzling. Although the Respondent stated more than once in
his testimony that during what he described as a single procedure, Patient A repeatedly
‘complained of pressure in her rectum, and wrote a second note, at 12:00 p.m., after the initial
11:35 a.m. note at the completion of the procedure, emphasizing that Statement, neither Patient A.
nor Ms, QB eationed this alleged recurrent complaint. Moreover, when asked how Ms.
ee) account could be so different from his, the Respondent accused Ms. QB of having
. been bribed by Patient A, without any evidence whatsoever to substantiate his claim. I —
this accusation, emphatically presented by the Respondent, bizarre at best.

However, based on both Dr. Adashek’s and Dr. Dietrick’s expert testimony regarding the
potentially mind-altering effects of the combination of Midazolam and Ketamine administered to
Patient A, I cannot find, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Respondent placed his
finger in her rectum, as she described, While I am certain that Patient A fully believed the
improper touching ensued, and was not deliberately fabricating her scoount, if even the State’s
expert questioned her reliable description of events, I cannot find it more likely that not that it
occurred,

Although the State did not meet its burden to prove the allegations claimed by Patient A,
the Respondent’s defense of these allegations fit a pattern that he displayed throughout the
hearing. At each turn, his responses were so embellished, exaggerated, and dramatized as to

‘ diminish his credibility. It was unclear whether the Respondent was simply nervous, or whether
he calculated that his more outlandish and quasi-detailed descriptions would render his testimony
more believable. Independent of his motives, whether the Respondent was reeling from Ms.

42
