body parts to gestures encompassing a sexual connotation. However, while the Respondent
came in proximity to Ms, a: body when he stretched her waistband and dribbled the ice
down her pants, the act was only marginally sexual, if at all. The regulation defines a ioeician
violation” as engaging in any conduct that is sexual or may be interpreted as sexual, Although
the action may have shocked Ms GB nd made her feel extremely uncomfortable, she did
not appear to interpret it as an Overtly sexual act, but merely as an action that made her fee]
“awkward.” (Tr. p.25) In itself, the act was more sophomoric than salacious. Since, in effect, it
skirted the edge of a sexual nature, and was simply inane, I cannot identify it as sexual
misconduct, impropriety, or violation, per COMAR 10.32.17,02.

“Desk” Incident

Had the “desk” incident Occurred in isolation, it may never have raised the attention of
the Board. For some reason, viewed differently by the participants, the Respondent became
upset in the office, and, acting in frustration, but without restraint, shook Ms. a: desk and
kicked a wall. Contrary to the Board’s assertion that Ms Bas frightened or intimidated
by the Respondent’s actions, Ms, QP pp cars to have left the office primarily due to her
interest in Separating herself from the Situation, and not out of fear,

More concerning than the Respondent’s behavior in Ms > s office was the
discrepancy between the testimony of the Respondent, Ms ae and Ms, GBPReearding the '
reason forthe Respondent’s outburst. Neither Ms. Gro. Ms. Bou specifically
remember the event or Situation that Precipitated the Respondent’s anger.* The Respondent,
however, again’ engaged ina highly agitated narrative of the alleged catastrophic loss of crucial
office and patient data, to justify his physical response, Surely, had the office experienced such a
calamitous event, Ms, AB, the veteran office manager, would have remembered, Even Ms,

a Ms I ccutzsca that the cause may have been a remark she made that the Respondent considered “stupid,

(Tr, p.620)
33
