Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) for evaluation and, if necessary, treatment;

Once enrolled in the MPRP, Dr. Basco shall undergo an evaluation by the MPRP
or its agents to determine whether Dr. Basco is able to appropriately manage his
behavior with regard to his interactions staff and patients professionally, and what
conditions, if any, are appropriate for his return to practice;

Dr. Basco shall fully cooperate in the evaluation and, if necessary, treatment,
including complying with all of the MPRP’s recommendations. Dr. Basco shall
provide the MPRP with all records and information requested by the MPRP, and
Dr. Basco shall sign any written release/consent forms to ensure that the MPRP is
able to obtain all records and information including treatment information and
mental health records and information, necessary for complete and thorough
evaluation and treatment;

Should the MPRP recommend it, Dr. Basco may be required to enter into a
Board-monitored Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. Dr. Basco shall fully and
timely cooperate and comply with all the MPRP recommendations, referrals,
rules, and requirements including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of
any Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered into with the MPRP, including any treatment and evaluations
recommended by the MPRP;

Dr. Basco shall sign any written release/consent forms, and update them, as
required by the Panel and the MPRP. Specifically, Dr. Basco shall sign any
written release/consent forms required by the Panel to authorize the MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Panel, including disclosure of any and
all MPRP records and files.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that once the MPRP completes its evaluation, the Panel

will review the evaluation and meet with Dr. Basco and the administrative prosecutor. The Panel

will then determine whether to terminate the suspension based on whether Dr. Basco presents a

risk to patient safety; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Panel declines to terminate the suspension, then Dr. Basco shall

continue treatment with the MPRP until such time that the Panel determines that he is not a risk

to patient safety; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Panel votes to terminate the suspension, the Panel will determine

appropriate probationary terms and conditions, if any, to be imposed; and it is further;

13
