witnesses, who presented convincing evidence that Employee D was out of the office on June 18,
2012. Accordingly, the Panel does not find Employee D’s testimony regarding Dr. Basco’s use
of a chaperone credible. Employee C testified that Patient B was rushed and angry when she
departed from the office. The ALJ deemed this to be unlikely and thus, the ALJ did not find her
testimony credible. The Panel adopts the ALJ's credibility determination regarding Employee
GF

Patient B testified that Dr. Basco touched her breasts and back and lowered her pants to
reveal her buttocks. The ALJ found Patient B’s demeanor supported her testimony. The ALJ
found that Patient B’s testimony was sincere, specific, consistent, straightforward, and steady.
The Panel accepts the ALJ’s credibility determination of Patient B.

In contrast, the ALJ found that Dr. Basco’s testimony describing their encounter was
“embellished, exaggerated, and dramatized as to diminish his credibility.” ALJ Proposed
Decision at 42. The ALJ rejected Dr. Basco’s suggestions about Patient B’s motives for lying.
The Panel also rejects this claim. In sum, the ALJ questioned Dr. Basco’s interpretation of
events and declared his version of events flimsy and rebutted. The Panel accepts this finding.

After considering the witness statements and testimony presented by Dr. Basco regarding
his practice of using a chaperone and the direct testimony of Dr. Basco, Patient B, Employee C,
and Employee D about the June 18, 2012 examination of Patient B, the Panel concludes that the

ALJ correctly determined that Dr. Basco sexually touched Patient B.

> Dr. Basco also argues that the ALJ should have considered Dr. Basco’s prior disciplinary
history as proof of his use of a chaperone. As mentioned previously, however, Dr. Basco had
argued the opposite, that the ALJ should not have admitted Dr. Basco’s prior discipline at all.
The Panel agreed with the ALJ’s use of the prior discipline in this case only for purposes of
considering a sanction.
