response to Ms. ile I find it more likely than not that when Ms. SBpised her bottom in
proximity to the Respondent as she bent over to place something in the refrigerator, he simply
responded to an irresistible urge to “playfully” lift her waistband and drop a piece of ice > down
her pants. I do not believe that it was a malicious or even lascivious act, but simply an immature
impulse exercised in misplaced frivolity,

However, even if not done in malice, the Respondent’s action reflected poorly on the
medical profession. As a medical professional, the Respondent should have held himself to a /
higher standard of behavior, and refrained from engaging in juvenile humor that had a distinct
possibility of being highly offensive. Dr. Dietrick, the State’s expert, offered that the
Respondent’s conduct “degrades the atmosphere of professionals in the office and also degrades
the safety in a medical environment by...intimidation and lack of respect.” (Tr. P.815)”
Moreover, the Respondent’s testimony, replete with elaborate excuses, convoluted poses and
extensions of blame, further eroded his dignity, and, as will be further noted, he repeated the
behavior throughout the hearing in testimony regarding the other incidents that led to the charges
in this case. For these reasons, I found the Respondent’s rendition of the “ice” incident less
credible than that of other witnesses and Consequently found his actions in the matter to have
constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in violation of section 14-
404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article.

COMAR 10.32.17 prohibits sexual misconduct by a physician with patients or “key third
parties.” In this matter, Ms. (Rem as an assistant in Dr. ae practice and a co-worker
of the Respondent’s, could qualify as a key third party who participates in the health and welfare
of the patient concurrent with the physician-patieat relationship. The definitions of sexual

misconduct in the regulation are fairly broad, ranging from sexual activities involving identified

 

3 Dr. A the Respondent's expert, did not offer an opinion as to the Respondent’s conduct while employed by
Dr.
‘ 32
