the stand personally believes or disbelieves testimony of a previous witness is irrelevant, and
questions to that effect are improper, either on direct or cross-examination.” Jd. at 277. In his
exceptions, Dr. Basco highlights in bold and underlines the sections of the investigator’s
testimony related to whether he believed Dr. Basco was telling the truth and the reasons for that
belief. The Panel finds this evidence improper witness bolstering and gives it little weight.

Dr. Basco also asks the Panel to find that Physician A was correct when he concluded
that there was no “concrete evidence” of sexual misconduct by Dr. Basco. According to State
Gov’t § 10-213(d), the Panel may exclude evidence that is incompetent, irrelevant or immaterial.
Generally, opinions by lay witnesses are “limited to those opinions or inferences which are (1)
rationally based on the perception of the witness and (2) helpful to a clear understanding of the
witness’s testimony or the determination of a fact in issue.” Md. Rule 5-701. Crucially, the
admissibility is premised on the fact that it is “derived from first-hand knowledge.” Robinson vy,
State, 348 Md. 104, 118 (1997). Lay opinion based on information learned from third parties
rather than first-hand knowledge is generally inadmissible. Smith v. State, 182 Md. App. 444,
491 (2008). In Smith, the Court of Special Appeals found that a detective was not permitted to
offer an opinion based on the hearsay statements of the witnesses rather than first-hand
knowledge. Physician A’s opinion about sufficiency of the evidence against Dr. Basco was
based on the investigator’s oral report relaying his interview with Dr. Basco, not based on
Physician A’s first-hand knowledge. The Panel declines to give Physician A’s opinion any
weight and concludes that the ALJ properly decided not to adopt Physician A’s opinion.

IV. Adequacy of the Charges — (Respondent’s Exception 4)
Dr. Basco claims that the ALJ committed error because she failed to find that the Board’s

investigation was incomplete and inadequate to support the charges. The adequacy of the
