542, 547 (1984) (quoting State v. Hutchinson, 260 Md. 227, 236 (1970)). Compartmentalization,
that is, “I may know something for certain purposes, but I don't know it for other purposes,” is
considered “[m]other’s milk” for judges, and “[w]e trust the judge to compartmentalize.” Polk v.
State, 183 Md. App. 299, 306-07 (2008). Both the ALJ and the Panel have the expertise to
compartmentalize the determinations of underlying culpability and the sanction.

Dr. Basco also objected to the admission of the evidence of prior discipline because he
claims it was repetitious. In other words, there were three underlying original cases that resulted
in multiple reciprocal actions by other jurisdictions. The ALJ acknowledged the repetition,
noting in her proposed decision that “[t]he majority of sanctions imposed upon the Respondent
by various jurisdictions were due to reciprocity between jurisdictions, rather than a multiplicity
of violations.” ALJ Proposed Decision at 47, The Panel thus considers Dr. Basco’s prior
discipline with full awareness that exhibits 2-16 reflect three prior incidents that resulted in two
disciplinary actions by the Board.

Dr. Basco also argues that the Panel should not consider prior consent orders because the
orders “were settlement agreements and no party should be able to use settlements to prove
liability for, or validity of, a charges in those actions.” The Board’s regulations do not limit
consideration of prior discipline to non-consent orders, but instead includes all disciplinary
actions. COMAR 10.32.02.09B(6)(a) (“Aggravating factors may include .. . [t]he offender has a
previous criminal or administrative disciplinary history[.]”). Maryland courts have approved a
health occupations board’s consideration of prior consent orders as evidence of prior discipline
in consideration of imposing incremental discipline when determining sanctions. See Rosov vy.
Maryland State Bd. of Dental Examiners, 163, Md. App. 98, 121 (2005). Dr. Basco’s exception

is denied.
