Respondent engaged in sexual misconduct under COMAR 10.32.17 in his examination of Patient
B on June 18, 2012,
Respondent's Employment with (ummm
Following his resignation from Dr, a. practice, the Respondent began working
for (Pin September 2012, until his Summary suspension on May 29, 2013.2” While other
disciplinary matters may have arisen from the practice of medicine at = this case is focused
on the treatment of Patient A.
Patient A
Conflicting testimony surrounded the allegations of Patient A. Both Patient A and Ms,
GBB escrives, i in detail, a process that included ‘two attempts at suctioning and an occasion in
which the Respondent remained alone j in the room with Patient A. The Respondent’s version of
events starkly contradicted that Scenario, citing only one procedure and asserting that he was
accompanied by Ms throughout the procedure?

‘It is difficult to reconcile the narratives; the record notes only one procedure, yet it is of
questionable veracity. Moreover, the primary accusation by Patient A, that the unchaperoned
Respondent placed his finger in her rectum and made a rude remark,?! js clouded by the
administration of Midazolam and Ketamine, which both experts agreed could produce a skewed
and dreamlike experience.

When asked about the possible hallucinogenic effects of the Midazolam/Ketamine
combination on Patient A’s perception of the procedure, each expert conceded that the

  
 
   

i say thaceitior, cues aout Shortly thereafter, on or abo tg 2013, the rede filed a Notice of Intent to Revoke Surgical Abortion
Facility Licenses against all of Maryland clini clini

3 The ponies offered testim ion a formerly of GMM} stating that he had been told by Dr.
physician, now deceased, ting of events to her, that indicated that

 
 

     
 

i Respondent crmmieens Paice A’s procedure. I found Dr. SR... testimony in this regard
uated as ts render it unpersuasive, and gave more to the essentially consistent t testimony of Ms.
mz categorically denied she had ever related to Dr. ‘at she had not left the Respondent alone in

the room with Patient A.
*) Patient A claimed that as the Respondent inserted his 7 in her rectum he asked “Baby, do it feel good?”
