deeply uncomfortable and, ultimately, violated, [ cannot fathom the Respondent’s reason for
touching Patient B’s breasts, pulling down her pants and manipulating her lower back. |
acknowledge that the Respondent continues to deny that these actions occurred; however, even
had he offered that they had been Proper components of an examination, I would have found his
assertion specious, at best.

Adding an additional layer to my analysis was the Respondent's histrionic demeanor in
the hearing. While the Respondent remained calm and passive throughout the testimony of other
witnesses, when it came his turn to testify, he became overexcited and accusatory, blaming
everyone but himself for all the trouble into which he had fallen. The Respondent’s excuses
were farcical, and might have even been amusing, had the underlying subject not been so serious.

The Respondent has already been subject to a Suspension and a lengthy probationary
period in another matter before the Board. While the instant charges temporally overlap sonie of
the charges that led to his previous discipline, they are not insignificant, and cannot be ignored.
Accordingly, and taking into consideration the factors contained in COMAR 10.32.02.09 and my

‘proposed dismissal of two of the Board’s charges, J tecommend that the Respondent be
suspended from the practice of medicine for six months, followed by a year of probation, with a
referral to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program for a behavioral evaluation, with
any attendant recommendations, and a requirement to attend any applicable course in medical
ethics the Board may impose, :

ROPOSED CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Proposed Findings of Fact and Discussion, I conclude as a matter
of law that the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in
violation of the Medical Practice Act. Md. Code Ann., Health Oce, § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (2014);
Finucan v, Maryland Bd of Physician Quality Assurance, 380 Md. 577, cert denied 543 U.S. 862

50
