during pregnancy and his threat to expel her from the practice should she continue. However,
Patient B’s last blood test that tevealed marijuana use was taken on May 9, 2012, with the results
available and sent to the office on or about May 14, 2012. Patient B was seen by Dr. ame:
on May 18, 2012 and Ms. Gn May 30, 2012, and each was aware of her most recent
positive test for marijuana’ The Respondent, whose medical knowledge was essentially
unquestioned, testified that traces of marijuana may remain in one’s system for 30 days
following the last use, so it was not clear that Patient B had continued to use marijuana following
her hospitalization. The Respondent’s recitation of events implied that his strong admonition
and threat was the office’s first awareness and alarm over the Respondent’s alleged continued
drug use. The time scenario raises doubt e to the Respondent's interpretation of events. While
it may be that during the examination, he noted the nearly six-week old blood test and even
groKgty cautioned Patient B, his characterization of her reaction | self-serving and a
smoke screen for his denial of her claim.

Ms. QP s testimony Similarly raised questions. Ms, (als appeared to have a
preternaturally detailed recollection of Patient B’s rushed and angry departure from the office on
June 18, 2012. Ms, Ged that nearly three years after the fact, as a mere bystander,
whose desk was “around the comer” from the examination Toom, she specifically recalled the
harsh words spoken by Patient B, as well as her actions, as she left. I found her absolute recall
unlikely. According to Ms. ap her clear recollection was based on her duty of making sure
pregnant patients with drug issues attended scheduled appointments, Ms. (eae offered that
when the office received a patient’s lab results indicating a positive drug test, she would send a
letter to the patient and have the physician counsel them during their next appointment.

However, there is no evidence that such a letter was ever sent to Patient B.

_—_——

”” Upon réceiving Patient B’s May 9, 2012 lab results, Dr SB... MBB 021 Potient B and warn her
regarding her marijuana use,
36 ‘
