medication mixture may well have caused Patient A to have an inaccurate, or even farfetched
recollection of events. Dr. Adashek, the Respondent’s expert, explained that Midazolam, a
benzodiazepine, is a long-acting amnestic, anti-anxiety relaxant medication that “sort of numbs
the mind, makes you fairly forgetful.” (Tr. P.739) Dr. Adashek termed Ketamine as a general
anesthetic that does not change a patient’s ability to breathe or heart rate, but noted that
Ketamine can have some “annoying side effects.” (Tr. P.739) He described the side effects as
the potential for “vivid dream-like states and nightmares” and noted that the federal Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) has warned on the Ketamine package insert that this emergent
reaction” occurs in approximately twelve percent of patients. (Tr. P.744-45) Dr. Adashek
further elaborated in his description of Ketamine reactions contained in the medication’s FDA
special note, which warns that “psychological manifestations vary in severity between pleasant
dream-like states, vivid imagery, hallucinations, and emergence delirium. In some cases these
States have been accompanied by confusion, excitement and irrational behavior which a few
patients recall as an unpleasant experience,” (Tr. p.746) Dr. Adashek, however, also noted that
the administration of Midazolam can mitigate some of Ketamine’s more severe side effects.

In his testimony, Dr. Dietrick endorsed the opinion he rendered in his written report, as

follows:

During the course of a dilatation and curettage for pregnancy
termination, there is no indication to perform a rectal examination
except occasionally prior to the start of the procedure if there is
doubt to the position of the uterus or severe retro flexion of the
uterus. If true, a gratuitous rectal penetration and comments such
as stated are indeed unprofessional conduct and sexual
impropriety. However, Midazolam is an amnesic*? agent and
Ketamine has hallucinogenic properties. Despite [Patient A’s]
vivid remembrance of Portions of the procedure and her nurse’s
feeling that [the Respondent] tried to get her to lie for him after the
charges were lodged, it is not possible for me to determine the

es

» An “emergent reaction” is one experienced while coming out of anesthesia,

a During the hearing, the words “amnesic” and “amnestic” were used interchangeably,
40
