Il. _Investigator’s and Physician A’s Statements — (Respondent’s Exception 3)

Dr. Basco argues that the ALJ erred by failing to consider testimony of Physician A or
the investigator that he hired related to the investigation conducted regarding the allegations of
Patient B. Physician A hired an attorney to investigate Patient B’s complaint. The investigator
reviewed Patient B’s written complaint and interviewed Dr. Basco over the telephone. The
investigator did not interview Patient B. The investigator did not attempt to locate or identify the
chaperone that Dr. Basco claimed was present at the appointment, nor did he interview any
chaperone. Physician A and the investigator concluded that Dr. Basco did not engage in the
conduct alleged by Patient B. The investigator testified at the hearing before the ALJ about Dr.
Basco’s denial of Patient B’s allegations. Dr. Basco asks the Panel to consider the conclusions
of these witnesses and reject the conclusions of the ALJ. The Panel denies this request.

Dr. Basco suggests that the ALJ should have relied on the investigator’s investigation and
adopted his conclusion, and, by implication, discounted her own credibility determinations. In
contrast to the investigator’s phone interview with Dr. Basco, the testimony heard by the ALJ
was in-person and under oath. The ALJ observed testimony from each of the persons who
claimed to be present: Patient B, Dr. Basco, and the alleged chaperone, Employee D. The Panel
rejects Dr. Basco’s suggestion that the ALJ should have disregarded her own impressions of the
live testimony and instead should have substituted the investigator’s second-hand impressions.

In addition, Maryland law does not permit opinion testimony on the credibility of other
witnesses. Riggins v. State, 155 Md. App. 181, 206 (2004). “It is the settled law of this State
that a witness, expert or otherwise, may not give an opinion on whether he believes a witness is
telling the truth. Testimony from a witness relating to the credibility of another witness is to be

rejected as a matter of law.” Bohnert v. State, 312 Md. 266, 278 (1988). “Whether a witness on
