Ms. =: testimony was completely undercut by the revelation that, contrary to her
assertion, she was not even in the office on June 18, 2012.78 In her testimony, Ms ay
without reservation, attested to her presence during the Patient B’s June 18, 2012 examination by
the Respondent, She Stated, in great detail, a description of the examination, disavowing Patient
B’s narrative, but offered a gentler version of the Respondent’s message to Patient B regarding
drug use, Ms. ipso claimed that she was utterly unaware of Patient B’s claim, although
she was ultimately served with notice of Patient B’s intent to seek legal action against the
practice. It is hard to fathom why Ms who otherwise appeared to be knowledgeable and
professional, would fabricate a story that was so eminently untrue. Admittedly a personal friend
of the Respondent, unfortunately, Ms. =. false testimony hurt more than helped her former
colleague, ,

Dr. Dietrick, the Board’s expert, offered that Patient B’s version of events contained
numerous inappropriate actions undertaken by the Respondent, Although he noted that there is

ho strict legal requirement for a chaperone, Dr, Dietrick submitted that it is most inadvisable to
examine a patient unaccompanied, and markedly unprofessional to be present when a patient
disrobes. Dr. Dietrick also questioned the necessity for conducting a breast exam on a patient
who is twenty-nine weeks into 4 pregnancy and indicated that manipulating her breast in the
manner described would not have be customary in a cardiac exam,

Patient B’s alleged motives are not pristine. It is true that she used marijuana while
pregnant, a practice that was strongly discouraged by her physicians, She did not reveal her

reasons for missing a number of appointments and complaining about the Respondent’s actions

ee

In rebuttal, the State presented evidence oS: RD :. bitler in Dr, AF.

office, of Ms. 's scheduled absence from the office on June 18, 2012 and a in her offi i

en ee cena > Sap in her office production on that
37
