for over a month and a half. Patient B consulted with an attorney, who ultimately threatened a
claim against the practice. However, when stacked against the flimsy and rebutted testimony on
behalf of the Respondent, I find if more likely than not that Patient B’s claims were true. That
she would have hurriedly left the office without making another appointment after such
gratuitous touching by the Respondent is believable, and her subsequent absence from the office
is consistent with having a bad experience and delaying return. Her description of the
Respondent’s June 18, 2012 en was clear and fot overly inflated or salacious, It is
entirely plausible that during this visit, Patient B’s first office examination by the Respondent,
that, unsupervised, he touched her =" as described, in a manner unexpected by Patient B, and
not in conformance with a standard, routine mid-pregnancy exam. As such, I find that the
Respondent’s June 18, 2012 examination of Patient B constituted unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine in violation of'section 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article,
Since I found Patient B’s version of events more credible than that of the Respondent, I
must consider whether his actions constituted impermissible sexual impropriety, misconduct, or
violation under COMAR 10.32.17.02. By failing to provide Patient B privacy for disrobing, the
Respondent engaged in sexual impropriety under COMAR. 10.32.17,02B(2)(b)(ji). Patient B’s
perception of the Respondent’s actions as sexually suggestive or demeaning also encompass
sexual impropriety under COMAR 10.32.17.02B(2)(a). Under COMAR 10.32, 17.02B(4)(a), a
sexual violation can encompass engaging in any conduct with a patient that may be reasonably
interpreted as sexual, and, under COMAR 10,32,17 02B(4)(b)(v), includes touching a patient’s
breasts, genitals, or any other sexualized body part. By gratuitously handling Patient B’s breasts °
and exposing her buttocks, the Respondent's actions met the definition of a sexual violation,
Additionally, under COMAR 10.32, 17.02B(3)(a) and (b), behavior that includes sexual
impropriety and sexual violation constitutes sexual misconduét. Accordingly, I find that the

38
