considerable technological skills. The Respondent’s current Concern is in the area of Electronic
Medical Records (EMR), and operating a medical/computer software service,

The Regulations require me to consider all of this disparate information, including the
facts of this case and all mitigating and aggravating factors, in order to recommend a fair and
effective sanction. In this Recommended Decision, I have essentially come to a split conclusion:
that the State has proven by a preponderance of the evidence two actions by the Respondent that
constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of the Act, and that
the State failed to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that two other incidents alleged by
the Board rose to such a violation,

The Respondent’s behavior in the “ice” incident and his treatment of Patient B exhibited
unprofessional conduct, The “ice” incident, while seemingly adolescent and trivial, reduced the
Respondent to a level unbecoming a member of the medical profession. In spite of the low
humor that infected Dr. QD; office staff, and particularly that of Ms, SD the
Respondent plainly should have had the sense to separate himself from such immature behavior
and maintain a dignified demeanor. This is not to say that the Respondent ought not to have
associated with office staff; to the contrary, it was in his, and the office’s interest, to forge cordial
working relationships with his co-workers. However, when it descended into childish and lewd
reciprocity, the Respondent crossed the line. Asa professional, the Respondent had an
obligation to engage in model behavior and appropriate decorum in the office setting. In this
vein, he clearly failed, :

The Respondent’s treatment of Patient B displayed a failure to conduct an appropriate
examination. The Respondent sloppily left himself vulnerable by not having an accompanying
chaperone. His examination of Patient B included aspects not customary in a routine mid-
pregnancy appointment, and appeared gratuitous and opportunistic, Clearly, Patient B felt

49
