—_ who appeared to have been an ally of the Respondent, had no recollection of an event that
the Respondent feverishly described as a disaster. As in the “ice” incident, the Respondent over-
embellished his testimony, rendering it less credible.

However, as to the primary issue of whether the Respondents actions in Ms. ay:
office constituted unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, the answer is less clear,
The Respondent lost his temper, albeit in an excited and potentially destructive manner,
Obviously, something in the notoriously dysfunctional office aroused his ire, and he momentarily
lost control. His actions, however, were not deliberately directed to any individual, nor did they
cause physical comiage. Although Dr. Dietrick characterized the Respondent’s outburst as
intimidating, the edie Suggests that the witnesses present were exasperated, at best, rather
than frightened. Ms. GP simply wanted to exit the scene, not flee, While the Respondent’s
anger may have reflected a less than admirable human response to frustration, it alone does not
rise to behavior that would negatively affect the practice of medicine, For that reason, I do not
find that the “desk” incident constituted unprofessional conduct in n the practice of medicine,
Patient B

The parties offered starkly divergent testimony regarding the Respondent’s treatment of
Patient B. Patient B was resolute in her description of events, detailed and precise. Patient B
described the progression of her difficult pregnancy, albeit in dramatic terms, including her
hospital stay in which she required intravenous medication and, eventually, a PICC line at home.
Additionally, Patient B freely admitted her marijuana use during Pregnancy, couching it in terms
of protecting her unborn child with hutrition, to mitigate her general inability to retain food due
to unremitting nausea. This justification, while a bit strident, was sincere. Whether or not
Patient B also used marijuana for other reasons, ni clearly had an interest in maintaining some
nutrition during the most arduous part of her pregnancy,

34
