based on a medical recordkeeping violation and (2) a nine month suspension followed by
eighteen months probation with terms and conditions based on unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, failing to meet the standard of care, failing to keep adequate medical
records, and practicing medicine with an unauthorized person. The Panel declines to assign any
weight to Exhibits 2 and 3 because these disciplinary actions by other states occurred outside of
Maryland, over 12 years ago, and prior to Dr. Basco’s receiving his Maryland license. The Panel
adopts the sanction recommended by the ALJ with modifications. The Panel will suspend Dr.
Basco’s license for six months followed by one year of probation. The Panel will also require
Dr. Basco to be evaluated through the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (the
“MPRP”), and, if necessary to be enrolled in the MPRP for monitored treatment. In addition, the
Panel will require that Dr. Basco take an ethics course focused on boundary issues.
ORDER

It is, by an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that fifteen days after the date of this Order, the license of Michael A.
Basco, M.D. is SUSPENDED for a minimum of SIX MONTHS and until Dr. Basco has fully
satisfactorily complied with the following requirements:

Ls Dr. Basco shall complete an ethics course pertaining to sexual boundary
violations. Dr. Basco shall submit to the Board written documentation regarding
the particular course he proposes to fulfill this condition. The Board reserves the
right to require Dr. Basco to provide further information regarding the course he
proposes, and further reserves the right to reject his proposed course and require
submission of alternative proposals. The Board will approve a course only if it
deems the curriculum and the duration of the course adequate to fulfill Dr.
Basco’s education needs. The course may not be used to fulfill continuing
medical education credits required for license renewal. Dr. Basco shall be
responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the course requirements and for
submitting written documentation to the Board of his successful completion of the

course;

2: Within fifteen days, Dr. Basco shall enroll in the Maryland Professional

12
