In 2003, the Respondent was issued a reprimand by the Texas State Board of Medical
Examiners for failing to disclose information in his hospital Privilege application. As a result of
the action in Texas, the Pennsylvania Board reciprocally issued its own reprimand of the
Respondent. In 2011, the Respondent entered into an Agreed Order with the Texas Medical
Board to complete an approved course in medical recordkeeping and pay an administrative
. penalty, based on a finding that the did not thoroughly document discussing medical findings and
options with a patient prior to a hysterectomy. Asa result of the 2011 Texas Agreed Order, the
Respondent received reciprocal reprimands from the Pennsylvania Board and the MBP (based on
the action of the Pennsylvania Board). In 2013, MBP summarily suspended the Respondent’s
license based on an investigation that revealed multiple violations at, and continued the
suspension subsequent to a post-deprivation hearing. As a result of MBP’s summary Suspension,
the Respondent’s license was also reciprocally suspended by the California Board, the D.C.
Board, and the Virginia-Board. In 2014, MBP terminated the Respondent’s summary suspension
and imposed a nine-month suspension, effective May 29, 2013, and a period of probation for a
minimum of eighteen months, The Respondent’s suspension terminated on March 5, 2013, at
which time his probation, with conditions, commenced, In 2014, the Texas Medical Board, the
Califomia Board, the D.C. Board and the Pennsylvania Board imposed reciprocal discipline on
the Respondent based on the actions of MBP. At the current time, the Respondent holds active
medical licenses in Maryland and California, His medical license in Virginia remains
Suspended, is inactive in Pennsylvania, and was not renewed in Washington, D.C., and Texas.

The Respondent is not currently engaged in the clinical practice of medicine, although his
present position in the field of Medical Informatics requires an active medical license for board
certification. He has transitioned to an area of administrative medicine, drawing on his

48
