aggravating factor that should be considered by a Panel. COMAR 10,32.02.09B(6)(a)
(“Aggravating factors may include[:] . . . [t]he offender has a previous . . . administrative
disciplinary history[.]”). The Panel, therefore, rejects Dr. Basco’s assertion that this evidence
was not probative. Because the evidence of prior discipline was probative, the ALJ appropriately
admitted the evidence, State Gov’t § 10-213(b).

Dr. Basco argues that evidence of his prior disciplinary history was irrelevant to the
charges and placed Dr. Basco in a bad light.' Here, the admission of prior disciplinary history
did not prejudice the ALJ because the prior discipline was only considered for sanctioning
purposes and not to prove the underlying claims. See ALJ’s Proposed Decision at 47-48. The
ALJ’s proposed decision does not discuss, allude to, or consider the prior discipline for any
reason other than determining the appropriate sanction.

Dr. Basco implies that the evidence is prejudicial because the ALJ would not be able to
separate the prejudicial nature of the documents from the proper purpose of considering a
sanction. But, “[i]t is well settled that a legally trained judge, unlike a lay jury, is capable of
compartmentalizing his thinking and of preventing knowledge which might inflame a jury from
influencing his own decisions.” Ehrlich v. State, 42 Md. App. 730, 739-40 (1979) (citing State
v. Hutchinson, 260 Md. 227 (1970)). “[I]t is clear that we have consistently reposed our
confidence in a trial judge’s ability to rule on questions of admissibility of evidence and to then
assume the role of trier of fact without having carried over to his factual deliberations a prejudice

on the matters contained in the evidence which he may have excluded.” Graves v. State, 298 Md.

' Dr. Basco also challenges the ALJ’s proposed decision because the ALJ failed to consider Dr.
Basco’s disciplinary history when evaluating whether he had similar allegations in the past.
Panel A cannot reconcile Dr. Basco’s objection to the Board admitting such information with his
objection to failing to consider such information. The Panel only considered this discipline in
ruling on whether to adopt the ALJ’s proposed sanction.

5
