“Complainant”) of an individual with whom the Respondent was romantically
involved. In the complaint, the Complainant alleged that the Respondent was
engaged in the use of an illicit substance.”

7. On or about March 11, 2021, Board staff contacted the Respondent requesting
that he sign an authorization for release of medical information. On March 18,
2021, the Respondent informed Board staff that he was “not favorably inclined”
to provide the information requested.

8. On or about April 14, 2021, Board staff sent the Respondent written
correspondence notifying him that a full investigation had been opened. The
Board also notified the Respondent that he was being directed to appear at the
Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) on April 19, 2021, for
an examination pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402(a)?. The Respondent was also
notified that failure to submit to an examination is evidence of the inability to
practice medicine in accordance with Health Occ. §14-402(c)*.

9. On April 19, 2021, MPRP notified Board staff that the Respondent failed to

confirm his appointment and did not appear as scheduled.

? Additional relevant information included in the complaint has not been specifically referenced in this document for
confidentiality and privacy purposes.

3 14-402(a) In general - In reviewing an application for licensure or in investigating an allegation brought against a
licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the Physician Rehabilitation
Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board or a disciplinary panel on its own initiative may direct, the
licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination.

4 14-402(c) Failure to submit to examination — The unreasonable failure or refusal of the licensed individual to
submit to an examination is prima facie evidence of the licensed individual’s inability to practice medicine or the
respective discipline competently, unless the Board of disciplinary panel finds that the failure or refusal was beyond
the control of the licensed individual.
