supervisor shall review the patient records, chosen by the supervisor, of at least 10
of the Respondent’s patients for whom the Respondent is prescribing opioids. The
supervisor shall meet in-person with the Respondent at least one time each
month... Additionally, the Respondent shall ensure that the supervisor provides the
Board with quarterly reports concerning whether there are any concerns with the
Respondent’s management of pain patients...An unsatisfactory supervisory report
may constitute a violation of the terms and conditions of this Consent Order.

Condition 32 — The Panel will issue administrative subpoenas to the
Maryland Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”) immediately and on a
quarterly basis for the Respondent’s CDS prescriptions immediately and from the
beginning of each quarter;

Condition 4 — The Respondent is subject to a chart and/or peer review
conducted by the Board or Board disciplianry panel or its agents. An unsatisfactory
chart and/or peer review will constitute a violation of this Consent Order;

Condition 5 ~ The Respondent shall comply with the Maryland Medical
Practice Act, Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-401 — 14-702, and all laws and
regulations governing the practice of medicine in Maryland[.]

Current Investigative Findings

1 The Peer Review

Pursuant to Condition 4 of the 2018 Consent Order, on January 10, 2020, the Board
subpoenaed and subsequently received from the Respondent ten patient records and
the Respondent's corresponding summaries of care.

The Board referred the records to a peer review enlity for review of care the
Respondent provided after April 14, 2019.

Two peer reviewers, each board-certified in anesthesiology and pain management,

independently reviewed the patient records.

* Condition 2 required the Respondent to successfully complete a pancl-approved course in opioid
prescribing. The Board received confirmation that the Respondent completed the required opioid
prescribing course on April 14, 2019.
