In October 1991, [Dr. Akoda] entered the United States pursuant to a
Nonimmigrant Visa.

In November 1991, [Dr. Akoda] applied for and obtained a Social Security
Number (“SSN”), XXX-XX-5054 (the “5054 SSN”), using the name “Igberase
Oluwafemi Charles” and date of birth April 17, 1962. In January 1995, [Dr.
Akoda] applied for and obtained a second SSN, XXX-XX-9065 (the “9065
SSN”), using the name “Charles Oluwafemi Igberase, Jr.” and a false date of
birth. In September 1998, [Dr. Akoda] this time using the name “Oluwafemi
Igberase,” and a false date of birth, applied for and obtained a third SSN, XXX-
XX-7353 (the “7353 SSN”). In or about 2011, [Dr. Akoda] fraudulently used the
7353 SSN to apply for federal education loans for his children.

In April 1992, [Dr. Akoda] submitted an application for certification by
the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (“ECFMG”). [Dr.
Akoda] submitted the application using the name “Oluwafemi Charles Igberase,”
and indicated SSN ending in 5054 SSN and date of birth April 17, 1962. ECFMG
is an organization which, among other things, provides certification to
international medical school graduates before such individuals may enter graduate
medical education programs in the United States, where they provide supervised
patient care. Foreign medical graduates must obtain ECFMG certification in order
to take the three-step United States Medical Licensing Examination (“USMLE”).
All medical graduates must pass all three steps of the USMLE in order to obtain
an unrestricted license to practice medicine in the United States. In July 1992,
[Dr. Akoda] failed both the basic medical science (Day 1) and clinical science
(Day 2) components of the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination in Medical
Sciences (“FMGEMS”), which is step 2 of the USMLE. Eventually, between July
1992 and September 1993, [Dr. Akoda] passed all three steps of the USMLE and,
in October 1993, was issued ECMFG Certification under the name “Oluwafemi
Charles Igberase.”

In March 1994, [Dr. Akoda] submitted a second application for ECFMG
certification, this time under the name “Igberase Oluwafemi Charles,” using a
false date of birth. Between August 1994 and September 1994, [Dr. Akoda]
passed all three steps of the USMLE and was issued a second ECMFG
Certification under the name “Igberase Oluwafemi Charles.”

In 1995, the ECFMG Committee on Medical Education Credentials
became aware that [Dr. Akoda] had fraudulently applied for and obtained two
ECFMG certifications under different names and dates of birth. In December

 

other person) is not entitled, or for the purpose of obtaining anything of value from any person, or for any other
purpose . . . with intent to deceive, falsely represents a number to be the social security account number assigned by
the Commissioner of Social Security to him or to another person, when in fact such number is not the social security
account number assigned by the Commissioner of Social Security to him or to such other person . . . shall be guilty
of a felony and upon conviction thereof shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more
than five years, or both.”
