On June 9, 2016, law enforcement executed search warrants at [Dr.
Akoda]’s residence, medical practice, and vehicle. From [Dr. Akoda]’s vehicle,
law enforcement seized a Maryland driver’s license in the “Akoda” name. From
[Dr. Akoda]’s residence, law enforcement seized (1) a false Social security card
for the 1623 SSN in the name “John Charles N. Akoda,” (2) a false Nigerian
passport for “Akoda,” and (3) a false United States visa in the “Akoda” name.
Law enforcement also found fraudulent or altered documents related to

immigration, medical diplomas, medical transcripts, letters of recommendation,
and birth certificates.

Throughout the above-referenced scheme, [Dr. Akoda] also used the 1623
SSN and false documentation to open various bank accounts using the “Akoda”
identity.

5. On March 2, 2017, Dr. Akoda was sentenced to six months incarceration, three years of
supervised release, home detention for six months, and an assessment of $100.00.

6. April 4, 2017, the Office of the Attorney General filed with the Board a Petition to
Revoke Dr. Akoda’s license to practice medicine pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(2).

7. Dr. Akoda did not appeal his conviction within the time prescribed by law and the guilty
plea and conviction have not been set aside.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Dr. Akoda does not dispute that he pled guilty to a crime involving moral turpitude and
has not filed a response to the petition to revoke his license. Panel B makes the following
conclusions of law.

Dr. Akoda’s plea of guilty to social security account number fraud, a felony, in violation
of 42 U.S.C. § 408(a)(7)(B), constitutes a crime involving moral turpitude per se. The essential
elements of the crime include intent to deceive. Dr. Akoda admitted that he knowingly and
willfully falsely represented several different numbers to be the social security number assigned
to him with the intent to deceive.

Maryland appellate courts have repeatedly held that if dishonesty, fraud, or intent to
deceive is an essential element of a statute under which a defendant is convicted, the crime

involves moral turpitude as a matter of law. See Board of Physician Quality Assurance vy.
