the phone calls and about mailing the subpoenas. This statement contradicts Dr. Badii’s
testimony before the ALJ at OAH, where he admitted that he received a phone call from the
compliance analyst on June 4, 2018. Next, Dr. Badii points to a statement in the Report of
Investigation where the compliance analyst stated that the June 11, 2018 subpoena ad
testificandum was mailed and emailed to Dr. Badii and argues that this is evidence that the
compliance analyst lied because there was no evidence that the subpoena was ever emailed to
him. The compliance analyst was asked about this statement in her testimony and she corrected
the error in the report during her testimony and confirmed that the June 11, 2018 subpoena was
mailed by first-class mail to Dr. Badii at his address of record, but was not emailed to him. As a
result, the ALJ found that the Board mailed the subpoena to Dr. Badii, on June 11, 2018, and the
ALJ did not find that the subpoena was emailed to Dr. Badii on June 11, 2018. The Panel agrees
with the ALJ that a preponderance of evidence supports the finding that the June 11, 2018
subpoena was sent to Dr. Badii by first-class mail to his address of record and was not emailed to
him. The ALJ was unpersuaded by Dr. Badii’s assertions that the compliance analyst was lying,
and instead, found that the analyst’s testimony was clear, concise, and consistent in explaining
all her attempts to obtain the requested information from Dr. Badii on multiple occasions. The
Panel adopts the ALJ’s credibility determinations concerning the Board’s compliance analyst
and agrees that there is no credible evidence to support that she lied in her sworn testimony.

Dr. Badii argues that, assuming the truth of the compliance analyst’s statements, he
responded to the Board’s subpoena only 7 days late and argues that he should not be sanctioned
for his late compliance. Dr. Badii, however, fails to address that he only produced one of the ten
patient records requested and that he has never produced the remaining nine patient records in

compliance with the Board’s subpoena. Dr. Badii argued that he was not able to produce the
