The ALJ compared the reports of the experts and noted that Dr. Badii’s history and
background was generally consistent in both reports. The difference, according to the ALJ, was
in how the experts viewed Dr. Badii’s work history and whether they considered the quality of
medical care provided by Dr. Badii in determining whether he was mentally competent to
practice medicine. In reaching the conclusion that Dr. Badii was not mentally incompetent to
practice medicine, the ALJ gave greater weight to the testimony of Dr. Badii’s expert than to the
testimony of the State’s expert. The ALJ pointed out that Dr. Badii’s expert considered patient
reviews provided by Dr. Badii, the lack of any patient complaints or malpractice lawsuits filed
against Dr. Badii, and interviewed Dr. Badii’s live in girlfriend, all of which the State’s expert
did not take into consideration in formulating his opinion. The ALJ found that Dr. Badii was
currently under the care of a psychiatrist and that Dr. Badii had insight into his condition and
recognized when he needed to take his medications and when he should not be treating patients
using telemedicine. The ALJ found that Dr. Badii’s condition was being managed and that there
was no evidence that he was putting his patients at risk and, therefore, concluded that Dr. Badii
was not mentally incompetent to practice medicine. The ALJ found that there was no evidence
presented or allegations that suggested Dr. Badii was professionally or physically incompetent to
practice medicine.

The State takes exception to the ALJ’s proposed finding that the charge of professional,
physical, or mental incompetence should be dismissed. The State argues that the ALJ’s
conclusions were based on unreliable evidence, such as online patient reviews, and testimony
from biased witnesses, such as Dr. Badii’s girlfriend and an expert that Dr. Badii paid to testify
on his behalf. The State points out that Dr. Badii has made different representations to different

professionals regarding the medications he is taking and his medication management and,
