i
likely so than not so” when all ofthe evidence is considered. Coleman v. Anne Arundel Cty.
Police Dep't, 369 Md. 108, 125 n.16 (2002) Under this standard, if the supporting and opposing
evidence i is evenly balanced on an issue, the finding on that issue must be against the party who
bears the burden.of proof, Id. For-the reasons articulated below, I fitid the State has satisfied its .
burden of proof to demonstrate the Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(33) and, as a result, he
is appropriately subject to te imposition of sanctions, I further find that the State has not -
satisfied its burden of proof to deimitistrate the Respondent violated section 14-404(a)(4) and is

therefore, not subject to sanctions under that provision.

The Merits of Board Case #2218-014 7B Failuré to cooperate with a lawful investigation
conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panelf:]

A physician licensed in the Stat of Maryland i is required to provide both a publica and
non-public mailing, address to the Board In addition to that: requirement, a licensed physician is
required to.notify the-Board of any change to his addresses within sixty days of the event.
Health Occ, §'14-316(6(1) (Supp. 2019).

Tn addition to the public and non-public mailing address, the Board requests a telephone
number and.a valid email address to assist: the Board ‘in communicating with the physician. At
the time of the Resporident’s renewal a his license, the Respondent provided Board with his
non-public address of a La Jolla, California 92037.

On January 5; 2018, the Executive Director of the. Board sent a letter to the Respondent: at
his listed nion-public-address. The ieter was not returned by the United’States Postal Service
(USPS) as undeliverable. Cortespondene from the Board is not sent by certified mail. ‘The
practice-of the Board is to send corresponderee by ordinary first’ class mail.

The origin of this case was a complaint received by the Maryland Department of
Management'and Budget (DBM) fo a prescription provider that contracts with the State to
provide prescription ‘coverage for State employees. ‘In the complaint, the:provider stated its

24

|
