records because the telemedicine companies maintained the records and he no longer had access
to the records or some of the companies were no longer in business. The ALJ found that Dr.
Badii was required to maintain his own patient records regardless of whether he practiced
telemedicine or saw patients in-person and did not find that Dr. Badii’s excuse that the
telemedicine companies maintained the records excused him from his independent responsibility
to keep patient records. In addition, Dr. Badii never responded to the Board’s June 11, 2018
subpoena, which required Dr. Badii to appear at the Board for an interview. The ALJ found that
Dr. Badii’s failure to respond to repeated requests from the Board’s compliance analyst
continued to delay the Board’s ability to investigate Dr. Badii’s prescribing practices and fully
supported a finding that Dr. Badii failed to comply with a lawful investigation by the Board or a
disciplinary panel. The Panel agrees. Dr. Badii’s exceptions are denied.

Il. Professional, Physical, or Mental Incompetence

During the Board’s investigation of Dr. Badii’s prescribing practices, Dr. Badii
submitted a complaint to the Board regarding another physician, which contained attachments
from a California court proceeding, including a financial statement in which Dr. Badii reported a
lower income due to a medical diagnosis and inability to work as a physician. As a result of the
information provided to the Board in the complaint, the Board initiated an investigation to
determine whether Dr, Badii was competent to practice medicine and referred Dr. Badii for an
independent evaluation, which revealed that Dr. Badii was not competent to safely practice
medicine due to his. anger, irritability, impulsivity, poor insight and judgment.®

The evidence showed that Dr. Badii has been evaluated by several medical professionals
over the course of his medical career with different focuses and reasons for the evaluations. Dr.

® The details of the evaluations, diagnoses, and specific medications are not disclosed in this document in order to
protect Dr. Badii’s private health information. ©
