13, Having not received ateply to her letter orher email, Ms. Dicken called the
Respondent on May 15, 2018 aiid-spoke to hint, He advised her that he had a new address,
Se San Diego, California 92122, Althougli this was a new address that
was not pteviously contained in the Board’s files, Ms, Dicken was unable to change the
Respondent’s non-public address on his license. The Board is only allowed to make the change *
following notification from the Licensee. Ms. Dicken informed the Respondent of this
requirement and urged him to notify the Board i in accordance with the applicable procedure..

14, One hour following'the phone call, Ms. Dicken sent the Respondent, by email, all
of the information sli previously sent by letter and email. She requested a response by May 30,
2018; however, shé did not receive-a response. She spoke with the Respondent again on June 7,
2018 and was,informed that he did not have medical records because of his inability to access
them as a telemedicine provider. He-did not maintain records. of his patients, but-was able to
obtain.the records of only.one of the-ten patients* medical records requested by the Board. Prior
to the June 7, 2018 conversation, the Respondent never informed.Ms. Dicken.or anyone else on
the Board that he had limited access to his patients’ records.

15. The Respondent was issued a subpoena on June it, 2018 to appear for an
interview with Molly Dicken on July. 12,2018, The:subpoena was mailed to the Respondent at
his-latest non-public address, as Diego, California 92122,

16, | The Respondent-never provided the documents.for the:nine other patients, nor did
he‘ever appear for an interview pursuant to.the June 11, 2018 subpoena. As of the-date of the
hearing, tlie Respondent has not‘appeared for the‘interview:and has not provided medical records
for nine ‘patients. :

17. On or.about July 9,.2018, the Respondent filed a complaint against Dr. ii
with the Board,” He-alleged violations of the Health Insurance Portability Accountability Act of

15
