exceed one year, which could be reduced after the Board determined that Dr. Badii had fully
complied with the Board’s investigation.

On December 11, 2019, Dr. Badii filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision and
the State filed a response. The State filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision on
December 13, 2019. On February 12, 2020, both parties appeared before Disciplinary Panel A
(“Panel A” or “the Panel’) of the Board for an exceptions hearing.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A adopts the ALJ’s joint stipulations of fact, numbers 1-18, and the ALJ’s
proposed findings of fact, numbers 1-50, and, numbers 54-59.! See ALJ proposed decision,
attached as Exhibit 1.2 These facts were proven by a preponderance of the evidence and are
incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set forth in full. The Panel also
adopts the ALJ’s discussion set forth on pages 24-28 regarding the failure to cooperate charge,
which is incorporated into the body of this document as if set forth in full. The Panel does not
adopt the remaining findings of fact or the ALJ’s discussion on pages 28-34 regarding the
professional, physical, or mental incompetence charge.

Dr. Badii was licensed by the Board to practice medicine in the State of Maryland on
October 17, 2011. His license expired on September 30, 2018.7 In or around February 2018, the
Board initiated an investigation of Dr. Badii, under case number 2218-0147B, following a
complaint filed by a pharmacy benefit management organization regarding Dr. Badii’s

telemedicine prescribing practices. As part of this investigation into Dr. Badii’s prescribing

' The Panel does not adopt the last sentence of finding of fact 33.

? The ALJ proposed decision has been redacted to remove confidential information from public view.

> Pursuant to section 14-403 of the Health Occupations Article, the license of an individual regulated by the Board
may not “lapse by operation of law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” The
investigation in both cases began before the expiration of Dr. Badii’s license. Therefore, by operation of law, Dr.
Badii’s license did not expire during these proceedings.
