practices, the Board issued a subpoena to Dr. Badii for the complete medical records of ten
patients and a subpoena to Dr. Badii to appear at the Board for an interview on July 12, 2018.
Dr. Badii failed to comply with either subpoena despite numerous requests for the information.*

During the course of the Board’s investigation of case number 2218-0147B, Dr. Badii
filed a complaint against another physician accusing the physician of a series of professional
improprieties.’ After investigating the complaint, the Board ultimately decided to close the case
with no action. Information submitted by Dr. Badii with his complaint raised concerns regarding
Dr. Badii’s ability to practice medicine safely and a new case was opened, under case number
2219-0026B, to investigate whether Dr. Badii was competent to practice medicine. The Board
subpoenaed Dr. Badii’s treatment records from the various physicians who had evaluated or
treated him over the years and sent Dr. Badii for an independent evaluation by a Board-certified
forensic psychiatrist to assess Dr. Badii’s competency. The psychiatrist reviewed all of the
evaluations and treatment records concerning Dr. Badii, as well as records from Dr. Badii’s
divorce proceeding and relevant portions of the Board’s investigative file, and concluded that Dr.
Badii was unable to safely practice medicine safely due to his anger, irritability, impulsivity,
poor insight and judgment.

EXCEPTIONS

Pursuant to the Board’s regulations, any party may file exceptions to an ALJ’s proposed
decision within 15 days ofits issuance. COMAR 10.32.02.05B(1)(a). The exceptions must be
related to the ALJ’s proposed decision and the disciplinary panel is not permitted to accept

additional evidence through the written exceptions process. COMAR 10.32.02.05B(1)(e). Both

‘The ALJ found that, as of the date of the OAH evidentiary hearing, Dr. Badii had still not appeared for the Board
interview or produced the records for nine out of the ten patients named in the subpoena.

> The details of the complaint and the identity of the physician who was the subject of the complaint are confidential
Board records and not subject to disclosure.
