understand that his failure to notify the’ Board of the address change is what-caused'an
unnecessary delay in the investigation into his prescribing practices. His failure to report the
change in address is sufficient alone'to cxtabli that he failed to cooperate with a lawful
investigation. While:the Respondent coninss his. failure to, cooperate with the lawful
investigation-by the: ‘Board, inchiding his failure to-even schedule an interview, which. was
requested in June 2018, nis preseibing practices continue, unabated, without the ability of the

_ Board to determine, whether his péescribing practices are ‘appropriate. I find his lack.of candor as
it relates to the storage of records and his access to them troubling, He is required to maintain
records regardless of whether he practices telemedicine or in-person medicine. The law provides

for no distinction, While he may not agree with the law, it is‘his responsibility to follow it,
unless ‘atid until it is chariged.

Finally, his accusation, without support, that Ms. Dicken did not tell the thith during het
testimony; is unfounded and uinsupported by the evidence. The Respondent’s failure to respond
to repeated requests from the Board’s Lompliance analyst, causing a delay in the investigation
that continues today, fully supports a finding that the Respondent failed to;comply with a lawful
investigation by-the Board ora disciplinary panel.

The Merits of. Board Case #221 9-0026B Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent;

This niatter originated with a complaint filed with the Board by the Respondent on July 9,
2018. The complaint was filed against Dr: P| the Respondent’s former eniployer. The’
Respondent worked for Dr = September'2013 through May 2015. The Respondent
accused Dr. Mf violating HIPAA by providing medical records to a court. without consent
and by making slanderous and false statements to Dr. .

At the time the Respondent's complaint against Dr: Ec: filed with the Board, the
Respondent was under investigation by the Board as a result of his prescribing practices. Ms.

28

i
i
i

 
