ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by the Order has
passed, Dr. Badii has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions for the
suspension, and MPRP finds and notifies the Board that Dr. Badii is safe to return to the practice
of medicine, Dr. Badii may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to terminate the
suspension of Dr. Badii’s license. Dr. Badii may be required to appear before the disciplinary
panel to discuss his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for
Dr. Badii to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an
order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions
it deems appropriate on Dr. Badii’s return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation
and/or continuation of Dr. Badii’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines that
it is not safe for Dr. Badii to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be continued
through an order of the disciplinary panel until the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for
Dr. Badii to return to the practice of medicine, and the disciplinary panel may impose any
additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Badii allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Dr. Badii shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the
disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be
before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an
exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if the disciplinary panel determines there is
no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Badii shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that

Dr. Badii has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary
