therefore, the State contends that, contrary to the ALJ’s belief and the opinion of Dr. Badii’s
expert, there is no reliable evidence that Dr. Badii’s condition is being properly managed. The
State argues that the ALJ erroneously relied on Dr. Badii’s board-certification and unverified
patient surveys to conclude that Dr. Badii was competent to practice medicine.

The Panel owes no deference to the non-demeanor based credibility findings of the ALJ
and makes “its own decisions about bias, interest, credentials of expert witnesses, the logic and
persuasiveness of their testimony, and the weight to be given their opinions.” See State Bd. of
Physicians v. Bernstein, 167 Md. App. 714, 761 (2006). Both experts agree that Dr. Badii has a
medical condition and further agree that a medical condition in and of itself does not mean that
someone is incompetent to practice medicine and acknowledged that there are many physicians
who have mental conditions who are able to competently practice medicine. The relevant
consideration, however, is whether the physician has sufficient insight into the condition and is
aware of the symptoms, so that they are able to participate in treatment and ensure that the
condition is being appropriately managed and controlled.

The State’s expert opined that Dr. Badii demonstrated poor insight into his condition
while Dr. Badii’s expert opined that Dr. Badii reported being insightful into his condition. Dr.
Badii’s expert’s opinion and the ALJ’s proposed decision were based on assumptions that Dr.
Badii was being prescribed medication on a daily basis by his treating psychiatrist, that he had
been taking the medication regularly since 2017, and that he saw his psychiatrist on a regular
basis for pharmacologic management. Dr. Badii’s expert also relied on the statements made by
Dr. Badii that he recognized the need to take his medication on a regular, daily basis and agreed
to continue taking the medication for the foreseeable future. These assumptions were directly

contradicted by Dr. Badii in his own testimony. Dr. Badii explained that he has been taking two

11
