concer that the Respondent'may-have been overprescribing topical creams, ointments and other
. high cost medications when compared to his peers. The préscription provider included_a detailed
report documenting a comparison of the prescribing practices of the Respondent with his peers,
It also detailed:the cost of these prescribing practices on the State of Maryland and various
options the State may consider if it-determined that the Respondent's prescribing practices were
inappropriate, One of those options Was to refer the matter to the state medical board.

The matter was referred by DBM to the Board and the matter was assigned to Molly
Dicken, Compliance Analyst, to investigate this matter further on behalf of the Board. Ms.
Dicken issued-a subpoena to the prescription provider for its investigative file. The documents
were received by Ms. Dicken in response to the subpoena.

Following receipt and review ofthe documents, Ms, Dicken sent a letter on March 28,
2018 to the Respondent at his'listed non-public address, Eee La J olla,
California. In accordance with standard practice of the Board, the letter was serit by first class
mail, It was riot returned as undeliverable by the USPS, Ms. Dicken requested in her letter that
the Respoiident provide-récords of ten patients within ten business days of receipt of the letter.
Ms. Dickens did not receive a response to her letter.

Having notreceived a response, Ms. Dicken sent an email on April 30, 2018, to the
Respondent at the email address provided by him in his-application to renew his.medical license.
The-email was merely jnterided to ‘confirm the Respondent’s email address ’so that:she could.send
documents by email. She did not teceive an email in-resporise to her email, either fromm the
Respondeiit of ari‘émail from the Respondent’s email service provider indicating that the email
sent by’Ms. Dicken was returned as undeliverable,

Ms, Dicken followed-up her email with.a phone call to the Respondent on May 15, 2018,
which the Respondent answered and informed Ms. Dicken that the initial non-public address had

25
