medications off and on to treat his condition and that he decides whether to take one or both
medications based on his mood. Dr. Badii told his expert that his treating psychiatrist had been
prescribing one of the medications since 2017, but then stated during his testimony that he had
just informed his psychiatrist three or four months prior to the hearing that he was taking the
medication. Dr. Badii admitted that his treating psychiatrist had not prescribed the medication
and that he had ordered it on his own from overseas due to the cost. The Panel is unpersuaded by
the unsupported assumptions of Dr. Badii’s expert’s and the contradictory testimony of Dr. Badii
and does not defer to the ALJ’s findings on this issue.

Dr. Badii’s expert also explained that he considered the feedback from Dr. Badii’s
telemedicine patients and the interview with Dr. Badii’s girlfriend as a more reliable measure of
Dr. Badii’s temperament and professional competence in comparison to the objective
psychological tests. The Panel is similarly unpersuaded by this testimony and the basis for the
testimony. The fact that there have been no patient complaints against Dr. Badii made to the
Board is of little relevance to whether Dr. Badii is competent to practice medicine and does not
alter the potential for patient harm if Dr. Badii continues to practice medicine while his condition
is not under control. The Panel does not have to wait for patient harm to occur in order to act.
See Pickert v. Maryland Bd. of Physicians, 180 Md. App. 490, 505 (2008) (“No proof of injury
or harm is required to take disciplinary actions against a physician’s license.”). A Maryland
medical license allows an individual to practice in any specialty and the Board cannot control or
guarantee that Dr. Badii will continue to work in the telemedicine field in a low stress
environment where his interactions with patients are limited and his schedule is flexible where he

can choose not to work on days that he feels symptomatic. The Panel gives little weight to the
