patient reviews and testimony of Dr. Badii’s girlfriend regarding Dr. Badii’s telemedicine
practice.

The Panel agrees with the testimony and conclusion of the State’s expert that Dr. Badii’s
insight into his condition is insufficient to ensure that his condition is being appropriately
monitored and he is getting appropriate treatment. Dr. Badii continues to dispute the diagnoses
of several medical professionals, has self-diagnosed himself based on his reluctant admittance to
any sort of condition, and has self-medicated by ordering medications from overseas that were
not prescribed by, monitored by, or disclosed to his current psychiatrist. The Panel, therefore,
does not adopt the ALJ’s findings that Dr. Badii has adequate insight into his condition and that
his condition is being appropriately managed and under control. After the considering the
entirety of the record, the Panel finds that the State has met its burden of proving that Dr. Badii is
mentally incompetent by a preponderance of the evidence. The State’s exceptions are granted, in
part.’

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A concludes that Dr. Badii is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4), and that Dr. Badii failed to cooperate with a lawful
investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-

404(a)(33).

’ The Panel grants the State’s exception with regard to mental incompetence and finds that Dr. Badii is mentally
incompetent to practice medicine. The Panel, however, agrees with the ALJ that there is insufficient evidence in the
record to support a conclusion that Dr. Badii is professionally or physically incompetent to practice medicine. The
focus of the Board’s investigation and the State’s expert report was on whether Dr. Badii was mentally competent to
practice medicine. The State’s expert clarified that he was not asked to evaluate the quality of Dr. Badii’s care, but
rather whether Dr. Badii had any mental condition that would affect his ability to practice medicine safely.

13
