Dr. Badii on June 4 and June 7, 2018, and Dr. Badii produced the records for one of the ten
patients named in the subpoena on June 7, 2018. On June 11, 2018, a subpoena ad testificandum
for Dr. Badii to appear at the Board for an interview on July 12, 2018 was mailed to Dr. Badii by
first-class mail at the new address of record that Dr. Badii provided to the Board. The subpoena
was not returned to the Board as undelivered. Dr. Badii did not appear for the interview on July
12, 2018 and has never made any attempts to belatedly comply with the Board’s subpoena.

Dr. Badii argues that he never received the Board subpoenas and argues that there was no
evidence that the Board subpoenas and other documents were mailed or delivered to him.
Licensees are required to update their addresses with the Board and have an obligation to
cooperate with the Board’s investigation. See Health Occ. § 14-316(f). Licensees who fail to
cooperate with the Board’s investigation are subject to discipline under the Medical Practice Act.
See Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33). Dr. Badii acknowledged that he failed to update his address
with the Board and admitted that he only checked his mail once a month and that the post office
stopped delivering mail when his mailbox was full. Because of the requirement to update the
Board of their address and the importance of the Board being able to investigate complaints,
licensees cannot avoid discipline if they fail to update their address and thwart the Board’s
ability to investigate. See Maryland State Bd. of Nursing v. Sesay, 224 Md. App. 432, 453-54
(2015) (Ms. Sesay’s argument could provide an incentive to licensees in the midst of
administrative proceedings in which charges have been brought against them—or even before
any such proceedings commence if they believe charges may be brought—to fail to update their
address with the appropriate regulatory body.”).

Dr. Badii also argued in his exceptions that he never received phone calls from the Board

on May 15, 2018 and June 4, 2018 and accused the Board’s compliance analyst of lying about
