contacted a prior psychiatrist in order to convince the psychiatrist to change his diagnosis. The
State’s expert concluded that given Dr. Badii’s anger, irritability, impulsivity, poor insight and
judgment, Dr. Badii was unable to safely practice medicine.

Dr. Badii’s expert, on the other hand, stated that, according to Dr. Badii’s reports, Dr.
Badii was insightful as to his condition and that Dr. Badii does not take telemedicine
consultations when he is symptomatic. Dr. Badii’s expert noted that Dr. Badii acknowledges he
has a condition, although he may disagree about the specific label, and that he has been
continuously taking his medications for a significant period of time, recognizes the need to take
the medication on a regular, daily basis and is agreeable to continuing to take the medication for
the foreseeable future. Dr. Badii’s expert administered psychological testing, which revealed
that Dr. Badii minimalized his faults, denied any problems, and was not very introspective or
insightful about his behavior. In addition, the psychological testing revealed that Dr. Badii is
likely to project an excessively positive self-image, externalize blame, see other people as being
responsible for his difficulties, and is unlikely to seek treatment or cooperate fully with treatment
if it is implemented. Dr. Badii’s expert, however, reviewed the patient comments and ratings
provided by Dr. Badii and opined that it was highly doubtful that Dr. Badii would have received
the positive feedback and performance ratings if his condition was impacting his ability to
practice medicine safely. The opinion of Dr. Badii’s expert, therefore, relied more on the patient
feedback selected and provided by Dr. Badii and an interview conducted with Dr. Badii’s
girlfriend than on the objective psychological testing. As a result, Dr. Badii’s expert concluded
that Dr. Badii did not display anger, irritability, impulsivity, poor insight and judgment that
would render him unable to safely practice medicine, and that Dr. Badii was not professionally,

physically, or mentally incompetent.
