SANCTION

The ALJ recommended that Dr. Badii’s license be suspended for a period not to exceed
one year, which could be reduced after the Board determined that Dr. Badii had fully complied
with the investigation. Dr. Badii argues that the sanction proposed by the ALJ is too harsh for,
what he describes as, a seven-day delay in providing the subpoenaed medical records. The State
argues that Dr. Badii’s license should be suspended for a minimum of one year and until he has
fully cooperated with the Board’s investigation.

As discussed above, Dr. Badii fails to appreciate that his actions have resulted in the
Board being unable to investigate a complaint alleging that Dr. Badii overprescribed high cost
drugs to telemedicine patients. In addition, the Panel has also found that Dr. Badii is
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4).
Pursuant to the Board’s sanctioning guidelines, the minimum sanction for a violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(4) is suspension until competence is established to the Board’s satisfaction.
COMAR 10.32.02.10B(4). The Panel finds that a suspension for a minimum period of one year,
and until the Panel determines that it is safe for Dr. Badii to return to the practice of medicine,
with a referral to the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program is necessary.

ORDER

On an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, it is hereby

ORDERED that the license of Roozbeh Badii, M.D. to practice medicine in Maryland,
license number D73228, is SUSPENDED® for a minimum of one (1) year.” During the

suspension, Dr. Badii shall comply with the following terms and conditions of the suspension:

* Dr. Badii’s license expired on September 30, 2018. The time period of the suspension and the conditions of
suspension are tolled until Dr. Badii applies for reinstatement and administratively reinstates his license. The
suspension and any conditions will go into effect if and when Dr. Badii’s license is administratively reinstated,
COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a).

14
