Both experts ‘detailed an extensive history af the Respondent, including his work history
as well-as his psychiatric history. His history was generally consistent with each expert, Where
they diverge involves haw they treated the Respondent's work history: Dr. I focused
on the-issues involving the Respondents practice with Dr. Bena how it deteriorated when
the Respondent began to sleep in-the office-and not practice appropriate hygiene. It is important
to note that the Respondent's working relationship with Dr. Beaded in 2015, Since then, Dr.
BEE focuses on'the Respondenit’s actions in court involving the custody dispute, He was
ordered to attend anger management training and be evaluated by Dr. | | This was an
extremely stressful period for the Respondent. Again, there was no consideration given by Dr.
P| as.to-the quality.of medical care provided by the Respondent. Dr. gM by
contrast, focused his:attention.on whether the Respondent, despite his mental illness, can
competently practice medicine. He'looked at patient reviews; he noted that there has never been
any patient complaints or medical malpractice Jawsuits filed against him. He'ldoked at awards
given to him for excellence and his recent Maintenance of Certification by the American Board
of Internal Medicine as evidence of his competency to practice internal medicine.

I gave more weight to the testimony of Dr. y= the testimony of pr: a.
‘The Respondents currently under-a doctor’s care, He is aware-of his mental illness even though
he may disagree with the diagnosis or the label applied. The diagnosis does not.matter as long as
the Respondent is mentally competent to practice medicine, He understarids that when his mood
chatiges, jie’will not take telemediaine Consultations during that period. He knows not to take
any risks when it cotnes to his patients, He knows that hé needs to contiiue to be under the care
ofa psychiatrist, His menial illness is being managed and there is no evidence that he-is putting -
his patients at risk because of his mental illness. The Board presented no evidence or allegations
that the Respondent is physically or professionally incompetent to practice medicine. The only

33
