(a) Dr. Badii shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (MPRP);

(b) Within 5 business days, Dr. Badii shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial
consultation for enrollment;

(c) Within 15 business days, Dr. Badii shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(d) Dr. Badii shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals,
rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(e) Dr. Badii shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the
Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information from MPRP records and files in a public order. Dr. Badii shall not
withdraw his release/consent;

(f) Dr. Badii shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of Dr.
Badii’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Dr. Badii and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Dr. Badii, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Badii shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(g) Dr. Badii’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions including
terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant

Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Badii shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it is

further

 

> (a) During the suspension period, Dr. Badii shall not:
(1) practice medicine;
(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the public as a current
provider of medical services;
(3) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Badii’s name or provider number by any health care practice
or any other licensee or health care provider;
(4) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the state;
(5) prescribe or dispense medications; or
(6) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and

(b) Dr. Badii shall establish and implement a procedure by which his patients may obtain their medical records
without undue burden and notify all patients of that procedure.

15
