the email sént by'Ms.:Dickén was delivered td his email spam: folder, whiclihe does not
routinely check. Only after speaking: with Ms. Dicken on the phone and learning that an email
was sent, did he discover the email in his spam folder.
The-Respondent claimed, during his testimony, that he never spoke:to Ms.:Dicken on

_ May 15, 201 8 and-accused her of lying about that phone call:. I am unpersuaded by the
Respondent's assertion. Ms, Dicken’s testimony was clear and concise and not evasive. She
was consistent in explaining all of her attempts to obtain the requested information on multiple
occasions. When the information was not forthcoming, she followed up with letters and emails.
The Respondent, on the other hand, was defensive and. could not explain why he has, to date, :
failed to submit to the.requested interview. The Respondent claims he maintains some records
and others he does.not maintain because they are held by the telemedicine companies. He also
stated that some-of the paper records were iri a house that he-did not have access to because of a
restraining order. However, he never told Ms. Dicken the reasons why he did not have access to
all the records. He claiiis that Ms. Dicken was lying about the May 15, 2018 phone call, yet he
has never filed a written response to the March 28, 2018 letter. I found the Respondent's
iéstimony on this point evasive and unpersuasive. He claims that he was prevented from
obtaining records due to a restraining order and.now the records are gone. He also testified that
the telemedicine companies have the patient records, yet he-was only able to. provide one record
when the-regulations:make it clear that he is required to: maintain records for all of-his:patients.
Although lie objects’ forthe charge of failing to coopetate with a lawful investigation of the Board
or disciplinaty pariel, his actions in. response to the inivestigaticn and his inconsistent testimony
clearly demonstrate a deliberate failure to cooperate. with the investigation. He stated during his:
testimony that he was willing to pay.a $100.00 penalty for not providing the Board with a-current
address within sixty days of a change, as required by section 14-316(£)(2), yet he fails to

27
