:

changed and was no longer: valid. Atthouh he provided Ms. Dicken with: ‘a new non-public
address, he was advised by her that he invst notify the Board of ‘the change and furthermore, she
could not change’ it herself. After ssa with the Respondent and informing: him that. he
would be sent:an-email, Ms. Dicken sent all of the information shé:previously sent to the
Resporiderit by eniail immediately fltowing the phone call.and requested that he respond by
May 30; 2018, Once again, he did not respond to Ms. Dicken’s request.

When she did not receive'a response as requested, Ms. Dicken called the Respondent on
June 7, 2018:to:inquire of the Respondent why he had not sent the requested information. The
Respondent advised Ms, Dicken that he hiad.only limited access to patient information due to the
fact that he was unable to access recor from teleriiedicine companies that he worked for that
have filed for bankruptcy: or otherwise | veased operations. He was only able to access one.
patient’s records out of the ten requ Ms. Dicken was not satisfied with his response.
Licensed physicians practicing tclemedicing are required to maintain documentation just like
physicians who practice in-peaot healt care settings. COMAR 10.32.05.06. Although the
Respondent was not charged in this case for any Violations of the Act relating to recordkeeping,
his inability to provide-the requested information limited the investigator’s ability to determine:
whether the complaint filed by the predotptoi provider has merit.

To obtain further information from the Respondent, a subpoena was issued on June il,
2018 for the Respondent to appear for: an. interview oni July 12, 2018. The: subpoena was sent to

his latest non-publie‘address and the wl was not returned by the USPS. The Respondent never

appearéd for the interview; 1 nor has the Respondent requested or suggested anew date for the

interview.
_ The Respondent acknowl that’ he failed to notify the Board of changes in his non-
public address. He-stated'during his testimony ‘that he did not’ goutinely check his mail atid that

i 6
