. -hisillness, the evidence suggests otherwise. He has been under the cate of various psychiatrists
for many years, His mental illness symptoms started during medical school. He also knows that
wher he-is becomes depressed duetorbad weather; he will not treat patients during this-period,
His vein pao Ls never heard him raise his voice while talking to a
patient, which suggests that in‘a professional setting, he is able-to-control his anger. Although
available'to-be interviewed by Dr RR suine the Respondent’s exatnination, Dr.

aa: not find it pertirient to interview Ms. a. Dr. aa did, howéver, spend a
considerable amount of time reviewing the mental health history of the Respondent. It is this
history, which accounts for the vast majority of Dr. ae: report and forms the basis of his
opinion on the Respondent’s mental competency to practice medicine. He did not.look into the

’ Respondent’s history and quality of work as a practicing physician before rendering his opinion.
The fact'that he has'not had any complaints filed against him by patients, receives excellent
reviews from patients, atid has received awards from hospitals where he practiced was of no
value to Dr. a: formulating his opisiion. Dr. aa that in the population
‘of physicians ‘as a whole, there’are thany who are diagnosed with mm: «=
psychiatric conditions, yet they can function and practice :mediciné.competently. These .
physicians have their illnesses under control with medication. and other means, which certainly
could include therapy as well. The Respondent is currently under the care of i.
‘MD, PhD.: She:has prescribed P| Her reports indicate that the Respondent’s
insight, judginient, cognition ’arid irnpulse*control are intact. She has observed the Respondent
‘over many sessions. Dr, a not, Othér than his one-time examination of the
Respondent, Dr. a: coficlusions are based primarily on the:psychiatric history of the

Respondent. 1 find that pr role as his treating psychiatrist, who knows the Respondent

31
