Badii has had several treating psychiatrists who evaluated Dr. Badii as a patient on a clinical
basis. Dr. Badii was ordered to undergo an evaluation as part of a child custody dispute in
California. Dr. Badii was ordered by the Board in this case to undergo an independent forensic
evaluation to determine whether he was competent to practice medicine and Dr. Badii hired his
own expert in this case to conduct an evaluation. There is a lack of consensus between the
medical professionals on a diagnosis, but Dr. Badii’s treatment history is largely undisputed.
Outside of the two evaluations conducted pursuant to this case, none of the other medical
professionals were specifically asked to evaluate whether Dr. Badii is competent to practice
medicine. The Panel gives little weight to the opinions and reports of the other medical
professionals who evaluated Dr. Badii in different contexts, who were not asked to opine on the
specific question at issue in this case, and who were not called as witnesses in this case.

At the OAH hearing, the State offered testimony from the independent evaluator who
conducted the evaluation of Dr. Badii as part of the Board’s investigation. Dr. Badii offered
testimony from the psychiatrist that he hired to conduct an evaluation of him. The ALJ accepted
both physicians as experts in forensic psychiatry and the evaluation reports of both experts were
admitted into evidence.

The State’s expert explained that a medical diagnosis in and of itself does not mean that
someone is incompetent to practice medicine and acknowledged that there are many physicians
who have mental conditions who are able to competently practice medicine. The individual,
however, must have insight into the condition in order to ensure the condition is being properly
monitored and they are getting the appropriate treatment. The State’s expert testified that Dr.
Badii exhibited poor judgment and insight into his condition, explaining that Dr. Badii believed

he was misdiagnosed, that the doctors who diagnosed him were wrong, and that Dr. Badii
