. settings. COMAR 10.32.05.06A; ‘There are no‘exceptions for licensees who practice
telemedicine: The Respondent’s failure to cooperate with the investigation demonstrates a lack
of good faith. Furthermore, I have previously determined that his misconduct was a. deliberate
attempt to impede the'lawfil investigation into his prescription-practices, The fact that the
Respondent deliberately failed to-comply with the lawful request fromthe Board’s investigator is
an aggravating factor.

The Board did not request that the Respondent be fined for his actions, even though a
minimum fine of $10,000.00 is included in the guidelines for this offense. I agree with the
Board’s recommendation and no fine should be imposed. While this is outside the range of
sanctions listed in the sanctioning guidelines, it is permissible to make this exception. COMAR
10:32,02.09A(8). The Respondent has demonstrated that he is currently experiencing financial
strain and a fine'would only add to his financial problems without providing an incentive for him
to comply with the investigation. It is important to note that the underlying complaint has yet to
be resolved. It is unknown, at this point, whether the Respondent’s prescribing practices are
appropriate or not. Therefore, the proposed sanction is not iritended to presume the outcdnie of
the investigation, but is intended to encourage the Respondent to cooperate with the Boaid’s
‘investigation. Therefore, I propose that the Board.suspend the Respondent’s license for a period
not to exceed one year, The suspension may.be less than a year provided the Board finds the
Respondent has fully cooperated with its investigation by complying with its requests to enable it
to complete its investigation into the Respondent’s prescribing practices, Whether any further
charges may be filed by the Board will depend on the outcome of its ‘investigation into the
Respondent's prescribing practices once he has fulfilled his obligation under. the proposed

disposition..
