may mean... a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element is a crime involving
moral ‘turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of offenses involving intentional
dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude] Id. at 459-60.
“[I]n the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the concept of moral
turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 483
(2005).

The statutory text is clear that fraud is an essential element of the crime that Dr. Murali
pled guilty to. Healthcare fraud includes the knowing and willful execution of a scheme to
defraud any health care benefit program or to obtain money or property of any health care
benefit program by false or fraudulent pretenses. 18 U.S.C. § 1347 (emphasis added).

In addition to the elements of the crime, Dr. Murali’s admissions to the Court also
establish that Dr. Murali’s crime involved moral turpitude. Dr. Murali admitted to defrauding the
Medicare program by knowingly prescribing durable medical equipment without following the
required regulations for purposes of his own personal financial gain. Walman, 280 Md. at
459-60. Therefore, the facts of this case also establish that Dr. Murali pled guilty to a crime
involving moral turpitude.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the above discussion, Panel A concludes that Dr. Murali’s guilty plea and
conviction for Healthcare Fraud is a crime involving moral turpitude. As a result, Health Occ. §
14-404(b)(1) requires Panel B to order the suspension of Dr. Murali’s license following his guilty

plea and prior to his sentencing date.

> At the time the Petition was filed in this case, Dr. Murali had not yet been sentenced. Accordingly, a Petition to
suspend Dr. Murali’s license was filed pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1) instead of a petition to revoke
pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(2), which would be warranted after the completion of sentencing and any
appellate proceedings.
