Under Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1), a disciplinary panel has the obligation
and discretion to determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral
turpitude for licensing and disciplinary purposes. “The term moral turpitude has
been defined generally as importing an act of baseness, vileness or depravity in
the private and social duties which a man owes to his fellow men, or to society in
general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and duty between
man and man.” Attorney Grievance Comm’n of Md. v. Walman, 280 Md. 453,
459 (1977) (internal quotation marks omitted), “{I]t is settled that whatever else
[moral turpitude] may mean . . . a crime in which an intent to defraud is an
essential element is a crime involving moral turpitude. It is also settled that the
related group of offenses involving intentional dishonesty for purposes of
personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude[.]” Jd at 459-60. “[I]n the
context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the concept of
moral turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians,
162 Md. App. 457, 483 (2005).

The statutory text is clear that fraud is an essential element of the crime
that Dr. Murali pled guilty to. Healthcare fraud includes the knowing and willful
execution of a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or to obtain
money or property of any health care benefit program by false or fraudulent
pretenses. 18 U.S.C. § 1347 (emphasis added).

In addition to the elements of the crime, Dr. Murali’s admissions to the
Court also establish that Dr. Murali’s crime involved moral turpitude. Dr. Murali
admitted to defrauding the Medicare program by knowingly prescribing durable
medical equipment without following the required regulations for purposes of his
own personal financial gain. Walman, 280 Md. at 459-60. Therefore, the facts of

this case also establish that Dr. Murali pled guilty to a crime involving moral
turpitude.

The appellate process is now complete and Dr. Murali’s conviction and guilty plea have
not been set aside, as a result, Panel A is now required to order the revocation of Dr. Murali’s
license to practice medicine pursuant to section 14-404(b)(2) of the Health Occupations Article.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

In the January 10, 2022 final decision and order, Panel A concluded that Dr. Murali pled
guilty to a crime involving moral turpitude. Pursuant to section 14-404(b)(2) of the Health
Occupations Article, upon the completion of the appellate proceedings, Panel A is now required

to order the revocation of Dr. Murali’s license to practice medicine.
