(2) After completion of the appellate process if the conviction has not
been reversed or the plea set aside with respect to a crime involving moral
turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation of a license on the
certification by the Office of the Attorney General.

Md. Code Ann., Health Occupations Article (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(b) (2021 Repl.

Vol.). Attached to the Petition were certified copies of the indictment, docket entries, transcript

of the plea agreement proceedings, judgment, and transcript of the sentencing proceedings. Dr.

Murali was ordered by the Board to show cause in writing, on or before August 29, 2022, if there

was any reason why his license should not be revoked. The Board did not receive a response

from Dr. Murali. Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel A issues

this Final Decision and Order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1).

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A finds the following:

1. On March 10, 2021, Dr. Murali pled guilty to one count of Healthcare Fraud, in violation
of 18 U.S.C. § 13472

2, During the guilty plea hearing, the following discussion was held between Dr. Murali and.
the Court:

Court: What did you do that led to your being charged here with Medicare Fraud?

Dr. Murali: I prescribed the braces, without following procedure of examining and calling the
patients, that led to unnecessary Medicare billing.

Court: Okay. In fact, not just unnecessary, but you knew that it was actually deceptive
and fraudulent; is that correct?

Dr. Murali: Yes.

? 18 U.S.C. § 1347 states:

Whoever knowingly and willfully executes, or attempts to execute, a scheme or artifice—

(1)to defraud any health care benefit program; or

(2)to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the
money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any health care benefit program,
in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items, or services, shall be
fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.

2
