required emergency action, pursuant to State Gov't § 10-226(c)(2)(i), and concluded
that Dr. Rajaratnam was professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation
of Health Occ. Il § 14-404(a)(4).

Under the terms of the Consent Order, Dr. Rajaratnam agreed that his medical
license would be suspended and that he would fully and satisfactorily comply with the
enumerated conditions, including those regarding his mandatory participation in the
MPRP. Condition “1” stated:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”). Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall
contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for enrollment. Within 15
business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP.
The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
toxicology screenings as directed by MPRPJ.]

The Consent Order further stated:

ORDERED that if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any terms
or conditions of this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice
and an opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to
material fact; the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of
the Office of Administrative Hearings. If there is no genuine dispute as to
a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing
before the Board or Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that if, after the appropriate hearing, the Board or Panel A
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or
condition of this Consent Order, the Board or Panel A may reprimand the
Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms
and conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Maryland. The Board or Panel A may, in addition to one or
more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon
the Respondent[.]

By signing the Consent Order, Dr. Rajaratnam agreed to each of these conditions.
