b. Board staff observed two plastic bags containing empty
prescription pill bottles, most of which were labeled. One of the
bags was located in the Respondent’s prescription sample room.
The second bag was located on the Respondent’s desk. The
Respondent advised that on occasion, her patients return unwanted
medications, which she had staff dispose of. The Respondent
stated she uses the bottles collected when she travels on missionary
trips to Africa;

c. Board staff observed a single white pill, possibly Clonidine,
laying on an end table (approximately four feet high) located in the
back left of the Respondent’s office. When asked, the Respondent
was not able to identify what type of pill or medication it was; and

d. Board staff observed a bottle of gabapentin 300 mg in the
Respondent’s desk’s upper storage area. Gabapentin is a
prescription-only medication that is prescribed to treat neuropathic
pain. The medication was prescribed by a physician who was not a
member of the Respondent’s practice. When questioned regarding
this, the Respondent claimed that her patient returned the
medication to her because of its side effects. The Respondent
stated that she does not personally use this medication because it is
for “nerve pain.”

13. The Board, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-402(a),’ referred the Respondent to a
Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an evaluation. The Program directed the
Respondent to undergo a psychiatric/addiction evaluation.

14. On or about December 20, 2018, the Board received a comprehensive evaluation

report regarding the Respondent, dated December 17, 201 8.° The evaluator stated that he “saw

3 Board staff identified this medication by the identifying information (U-136) inscribed on the pill. Clonidine is a
prescription-only, anti-hypertensive medication.

4 Health Occ, § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification, or registration or in
investigation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title, the
Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own initiative may direct, any
physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under this title to submit to an appropriate
examination.

> In order to maintain confidentiality, the details of the comprehensive report will not be disclosed in this Order, but
the report will be made available to the Respondent upon request.
