Date: 7 [ ( 13 PA Z02Z |

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4!" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Duane M. Stillions, M.D., License Number: D78260
Case Number: 2221-0088

Dear Dr, Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Oce.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D78260, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq.
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that on January 29, 2021, the Board initiated an investigation of my
practice. Based on the investigation, on March 9, 2021, Panel B issued an Order for
Summary Suspension (the “Order”) of my license. The Board also voted to issue
disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(a)(3)(ii)', (8)? & (43),
Specifically, Panel B alleged that I diverted CDS from a healthcare facility where I
practiced medicine. A copy of the Order is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of the Order and the disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the Order and the

 

"Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine

* Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in §5-101
of the Criminal Law Article

* Violates any provision of this title, any rule or regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal
law pertaining to the practice of medicine
