who directly observed the Respondent diverting a CDS by siphoning from patients’
intravenous medication pumps on multiple occasions.
12. Clinical Nurse A reported that on January 3, 2021, she saw the Respondent

acting weird around an IV pump. He appeared to be manipulating the pump
in some way. ... Later that day the same thing happened with the pump for
room 8...J could tell he was manipulating the pump in some way. ... This
Sunday, January 17, sometime after 4pm I saw him at the medication pump
for the patient un room 12 and he was pulling something from the IV. I
watched him remove the orange cap and withdrawal [sic] something from
the tube. He then took the filled syringe and put it in his pocket.

13. Clinical Nurse A further reported that the pump from which the Respondent

extracted the fluid contained CDS.

14. Clinical Nurse B reported nearly identical observations, specifically that on the

morning of January 16, 2021,

I was standing outside of room 10. From where I was standing, I saw Dr.
Stillions go to the outside of patient room 12 where the patient’s medication
pump was located. The patient in room 12 is a very sick, vented patient on
several drips. Dr. Stillions had a syringe in his hand. At first I thought he was
going to give the patient medication. He opened the orange cap and it fell to
the floor. I then watched Dr. Stillions attach the syringe to the secondary line
and withdrawal [sic] the patient’s medication. I notice that he filled up a 10
ce syringe with the medication and then put the syringe in his chest pocket.
He then took out a second syringe and did the same thing, filling it up with
close to 10 cc of the medication. ... The medication associated with this line
was [CDS].

15. | Clinical Nurse B also reported that the following day, Sunday, January 17, 2021,
she observed the Respondent again diverting CDS using the same modus operandi:

When he came out [of the doctors’ lounge] he went directly to the supply
room first; after the supply room he went straight to the patient’s medication
pump outside room 12. I was outside room 11 at this time. I watched Dr.
Stillions withdrawal [sic] a full syringe of [CDS] from the tube. About this
time, the charge nurse asked me to fill Dr. Stillions in on the status of the

4
