Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
Re: Jennifer M. Liao., M.D.

License Number: D78756; Case Number: 2017-0472B

Page 2

| further acknowledge that on March 30, 2017, Panel B determined that | had
engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, constituting a violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), am professionally, physically or mentally incompetent,
constituting a violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4) and am addicted to, or habitually
abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the
Criminal Law Article. | have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of these disciplinary charges now

pending before Panel B. The Charges are attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Attachment A.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of Panel B’s Charges. If this
case were to proceed to a hearing, | agree that the State would be able to prove the
Charges, and for purposes related to medical licensure, these Charges will be treated
as if proven. | understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, | am waiving any
right to contest the Charges in a formal evidentiary hearing at which | would have had
the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my
own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that Panel B will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Databank
of this Letter of Surrender, and in any response to any inquiry, that | have surrendered
my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in the event | apply for a license
in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of Surrender and the underlying
investigative documents may be released or published by Panel B to the same extent
as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,
Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101-4-601 (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender is considered a
disciplinary action by the Board.

| affirm that on or before the date of Panel B’s acceptance of this Letter of
Surrender, | will provide to Board staff my original Maryland medical license, number
D78756 drug dispensing permit and my most recent renewal license issued by the
Board. | also affirm that | will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered for a minimum period of two (2) years, pursuant to Code
Md. Regs. 10.32.02.06B(2)(a). In the event that | apply for reinstatement of my
Maryland License, | understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant
reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions
the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the
integrity and reputation of the profession. | understand that when applying for
reinstatement, | will approach Panel B or its successor in the same posture as one
whose license has been revoked. | also understand that if | apply for reinstatement, |
