 

Jennifer M. Liao, M.D.

a7
Sune ZL , 2017

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215-2299

RE: Surrender of Medical License
License Number: D78756
_ Case Number: 2017-0472B

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

| have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D78756, effective immediately. ! understand that upon
surrender of my license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual,
with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in
the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”), §§ 14-101 ef seq.,
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2015 Supp.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license
means that | am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC. document and on upon
acceptance by Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board’) becomes a FINAL ORDER of the Board.

| acknowledge that on February 24, 2017, | entered into a Consent Order in lieu
of Panel B summarily suspending my medical license after the Board investigated
complaints from my former employer that on multiple occasions | had behaved in an
erratic manner that adversely affected patient interactions and was disruptive to the
operation of the practice. Under the terms of the Consent Order, my medical license
was suspended and | was required to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program. | understand that upon acceptance of this Letter of Surrender by Panel B, the
terms and conditions of the February 24, 2017 Consent Order are terminated as moot
and have no further force or effect.
