Occ. § 14-404(a)(7). Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A terminated the summary suspension,
suspended Dr. Thomas's medical license for a minimum of six additional months, and required
Dr. Thomas to enter into and comply with a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. On or about February 19, 2020, Dr. Thomas enrolled in MPRP

and signed a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and an Addendum to the Rehabilitation

Agreement.
The Consent Order stated:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

* * *

{c) the respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP.

a ag *

(f) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation

Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitute a violation of
this Consent Order{.]

The Consent Order further stated:

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term
or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice
and an opportunity for a hearing. [fa disciplinary panel determines there is a
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative
Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions
process before a disciplinary panel; and if a disciplinary panel determines there is
no genuine dispute of fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing
before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of
this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the

2
