nN

10
ll

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

oD ew N A WwW BR WwW

nearly $47,000 to her secondary insurance, Anthem Blue Cross, for services related to the .
procedure performed on January 13, 2015. Patient A contacted Respondent’s office to complain
and was told that the company that handled Respondent’s billing made errors in regard to the
charges submitted to Medicare and Anthem Blue Cross and steps had been taken, or were being
taken, to address the issue.

‘19. On or about September 13, 2016, the FDA sent Respondent a “Notice of Initiation of
Disqualification Proceedings and Opportunity to Explain (NIDPOE).” The NIDPOE stated,
among other things, “[bJased on our evaluation of information obtained by the Agency, we
believe that you, as a sponsor-investigator, have repeatedly or deliberately violated regulations
governing the proper conduct of clinical studies involving investigational products . ..” The
violations were listed as: “(1) You repeatedly failed to submit an application to the FDA and
obtain institutional review board (IRB) and FDA approval prior to allowing subjects to participate
in the investigation...; (2) You deliberately allowed subjects to participate in a study before
obtaining approval from the reviewing IRB prior to initiation of the study; (3) You deliberately
failed to ensure that IRB-approved informed consent was obtained from study subjects and
adheres to informed consent requirements...; (4) You deliberately represented a device as safe
and effective for the purpose of treating various diseases other than those for which FDA has
approved them. ..; and (5) You repeatedly failed to maintain accurate, and complete records of
receipt, use and disposition of devices....”

20. Onor about March 8, 2017, the FDA issued a safety communication entitled “FDA |
Concern over Experimental Procedures that Use Balloon Angioplasty Devices to Treat
Autonomic Dysfunction.” In this safety communication, the FDA stated its purpose of the safety

communication was:

“Purpose: To alert the audiences listed above {‘thealth care providers” and “people

considering treatment options for autonomic dysfunction”] about an experimental

procedure called Transvascular Autonomic Modulation (TVAM). This procedure

may put patients at risk because [it] is being promoted as a treatment for a variety of

conditions even though it has not been formally studied in clinical trials. The

procedure uses balloon angioplasty devices outside the scope of the FDA-approved
-indications for use. -

‘fil
9

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 

 
