 

 

Respondent shall receive a notification from the Board or its designee to cease the practice of
medicine within. three (3).calendar days after being so notified, The Respondent shall not resume
practice until an appropriate practice setting is established.

If, during the course of the probation, the Respondent’s practice setting changes and

the Respondent is no longer practicing in a setting iri compliance with this Decision, the

| Respondent shall notify the Board or its designee within five (5) calendar days of the practice

setting change. If Respondent fails to establish a practice with another physician or sécure ~
employment in an appropriate practice setting within 60 calendar days of the practice setting
change, Respondent shall receive a notification from the Board or its designee to cease the
practice of medicine within three (3).calendar days after being so notified. The Respondent shal!
not resume practice until an appropriate practice setting is established.

5. NOTIFICATION, Within sever (7) days of the effective date of this Decision, the

 

Respondent shall provide a true copy of this Decision and Accusation to the Chief of Staff or the
Chief Executive Officer at every hospital where privileges or membership are extended to

Respondent, at any other facility where Respondent engages in the practice of medicine,

‘inoluding all physician and locum tenens registries or other similar agencies, and to the Chief

Executive Officer at every insurance carrier which extends malpractice insurance coverage to

Respondent. Respondent shall submit proof of compliance to the Board ot its designee within 15

calendar days. This condition shall apply to any change(s) in hospitals, other facilities or

insurance carrier, :

6. SUPERVISION OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS AND ADVANCED
PRACTICE NURSES. During probation, Respondent is prohibited from supervising physician
assistants and advanced practice nurses, a .

7. OBEY ALL LAWS. Respondent shall obey all federal, state and local Jaws, all rules
governing the practice of medicine in California and remain in full compliance with any court
ordered criminal probation, payments, and other orders. This shall include Respondent obeying
the FDA’s revocation of his eligibility to conduct clinical trials or investigations for products
regulated by the FDA, that was revoked by the FDA through their Denial of Hearing and -

7 . .
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-20!5-014936)

 
