so oo ~ nN wm > w NN. =

No No N nN nN NY WN ie} Ny _ — — = — ee _ —~
co ~ an wn > w No _ o =) oo ~ an Ww > w N “OD

 

 

DISCIPLINARY ORDER
ITIS HEREBY ORDERED that Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certifi cate No. A70967

 

issued to Respondent Michael Andrew Arata, M.D. is revoked, However, the revocation is stayed|
and Respondent is placed on probation for five (5) years on the following terms and conditions,

t, EDUCATION COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this .
Decision, and on an annual basis thereafter, Respondent shall submit to the Board or its designee
for its prior approval educational program(s) or course(s) which shall not be less than 40 hours .
per year, for each year of probation. The educational program(s) or course(s) shall be aimed at
correcting any areas of deficient practice or knowledge and shall be Category I certified. The
educational program(s) or course(s) shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to
the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure. Following the
completion of each course, the Board or its designee may administer an examination to test
Respondent’ s knowledge of-the course, Respondent shall provide proof of attendance for 50
hours of CME of which 25 hours were in satisfaction of this condition.

2. MEDICAL RECORD KEEPING COURSE. Within 60 calendar days of the

 

effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a course in medical record keeping
approved in advance by the Board or its designee, Respondent shal! provide the approved course
provider with any information and documents that the approved course provider may deem
pettinent. Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete the classroom component of

the course not later than six (6) months after Respondents initial enrollment. Respondent shall ;

successfully complete any other component of the course within one qd) year of enrollment. The

medical record keeping course shal] be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in addition to the
Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

A medical record keeping course taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfiliment of this condition if the course would have
been approved by the Board or its designee had the course been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

. 5
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936) ;

 

 
