oN KN NWN FF WD NY

_
o wo

 

 

12, COMPLETION OF PROBATION, Respondent shall comply with a 1 financial

 

obligations (e. B. restitution, probation costs) not later than 120 calendar days prior to the
completion of probation, Upon successful completion of probation, Respondent’s certificate shall
be fully restored.

13. VIOLATION OF PROBATION. Failure to fully comply with any term or

 

condition of probation is a violation of probation, If Respondent violates probation in any
respect, the Board, after giving Respondent notice and the opportunity to be heard, may revoke
probation and carty out the disciplinary order that was stayed. If an Accusation, or Petition to °
Revoke Probation, or an Interim Suspension Order is filed against Respondent during probation,
the Board shall have continuing jurisdiction until the matter is final, and the period of probation -
shall be extended until the matter is final. .

14, LICENSE SURRENDER. Following the effective date of this Decisios, if

 

Respondent ceases practicing due to retirement or health reasons or is otherwise unable to satisfy
the terms and conditions of probation, Respondent may request to surrender his or her license,
The Board reserves the right to evaluate Respondent’s request and to exercise its discretion in”

determining whether or not to grant the request, or to take any other action deemed appropriate

-and reasonable under the circumstances. Upon formal acceptance of the surrender, Respondent

shall within 15. calendar days deliver Respondent’s wallet and wall certificate to the Board or its
designee and Respondent shail no longer practice medicine. Respondent will no longer be subject
to the terms and conditions of probation, If Respondent re-applies for a medical license, the
application shalt be treated as a petition for reinstatement of a revoked certificate.

PROBATION MONITORING COSTS, Respondent shall pay the costs associated with
probation monitoring each and every year of probation, as designated by the Board, which may be
adjusted on an annual basis. ‘Such costs shall be payable to the Medical Board of California and
delivered to the Board or its designee no later than January 31 -of each calendar year.

Hit
(111
‘tll

. 10
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 

 
