a wWooON

Ww

oO won DD

 

and she was unaware Respondent was being scrutinized by the FDA for his off-label use of
angioplasty balloon devices that FDA deemed “significant risk devices” under applicable federal
regulations. During this visit, there was,no detailed pre-procedure history obtained, no physical
examination performed by Respondent, and no cardiovascular or neurological assessment.
According to Respondent’s medical records, certain “Autonomic” tests were performed which
included a Heart Rate Deep Breathing (HRDB) Test, a HRDB Analysis, HRDB (R-R) Analysis,
Valsalva Maneuver Test and Sweat Response Test.

15. Onor about January 13, 2015, patient A arrived early at Respondent’s office where
she was prepped for her outpatient procedure which, according to the available medical records,
would be performed under conscious sedation. Once again, there was no indication of any
detailed history and/or physical examination.> According to the medical record for this visit,
patient A’s procedure diagnosis was “Venous compression, Autonomic Dysfunction” and the
procedures to be performed were listed as: “(1) Bilateral internal jugular vein, cerebral sinuses,
left renal, left iliac, azygos and subclavian venograms; (2) Ballooning of internal jugular vein: 12
mm left, 14 mm right; (3) Ballooning of the azygos vein: 6 mm; (4) Ballooning of the left renal
vein: 10 mm; (5) ballooning of the left iliac vein: 10 mm; [and] (6) Intravascular ultrasound
interrogation.” The alleged indication for the procedure was “[t]he patient has chronic venous
compression and dysautonomia.” Following the procedure, Respondent documented,
“INTERPRETATION: Successful bilateral jugular and sinus, azygos, SVC, IVC, left iliac, and
left renal venography [with] Venous compressive disease identified and successfully treated...”
Patient A was advised, at some point during this visit, that some patients have immediate

improvement in their symptoms, other patients take longer to see improvement, but all patients

. who had undergone the same procedure had improvement of their MS symptoms. After the ”

procedure, patient A was picked up by her daughter and returned to her hotel room.
Hifi

5 Respondent acknowledged in his interview before a Department of Consumer Affairs,
Health Quality Investigation Unit (““HQIU”) investigator that he failed to document a history and
physical examination. .

7

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
