NY N NY NY BW NY NY DP NN ewe ee ee
ort Dn HW FF BN = DBO Oo DQM HR HUD FPF DW HB —|— ©

Ce IY A Ww FR WwW WN

 

 

CULPABILITY

8. Respondent agrees that, at an administrative hearing, Complainant could establish a
prima facie case with respect to the charges and allegations in Accusation No. 800-201 5-014936,
and that he has thereby subjected his Physician’s and Surgeon's Certificate No. A70967 to -
disciplinary action, Respondent further agrees to be bound by the Board’s imposition of
discipline as set forth in the Disciplinary Order below.

9.- Respondent further agrees that if he ever petitions fot early termination or -
modification of probation, or if an accusation and/or petition for revocation of probation is filed
against him before the Board, all of the charges and allegations contained in Accusation No, 800-
2015-014936 shall be deemed true, correct and fully admitted by Respondent for purposes of that
proceeding or any other licensing proceeding involving Respondent in the State of California or
elsewhere,

10. Respondent further agrees that he will not seek reinstatement from or with the U.S,
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), pursuant to 21 GRR. section 812.1 19, subdivision (f),,08
any other applicable authority, to have his eligibility reinstated to conduct clinical trials or
investigations for products regulated by the FDA, that was revoked by the FDA through their ,
Denial of Hearing and Disqualification Letter of May 21, 2018.

11, Respondent agrees that his Physician’s and Surgeon’s Certificate is’subject to
discipline and he agrees to be bound by the Board’s probationary terms as set forth in the
Disciplinary Order below.

CONTINGENCY

12, This stipulation shall be subject to approval by the Medical Board of California,»
Respondent understands and agrees that counsel for Complainant and the staff of the Medical
Board of California may communicate directly with the Board regarding this stipulation and ©
settlement, without notice to or participation by Respondent or his counsel, By signing the
stipulation, Respondent understands and agrees that he may not withdraw his agreement or seek
to rescind the stipulation prior to the time the Board considers and acts upon it. If the Board fails
to adopt this stipulation as its Decision and Order, the Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary

. 3 :
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
