“This safety communication supplements a 2012 safety communication [with a link to
the FDA’s earlier safety communication of May 10, 2012] and warning letter [with a
link to the FDA’s warning letter to Respondent of September 5, 2010] addressing the
risk of serious injuries and death associated with similar experimental procedures,
using the same medical devices, to treat Chronic Cerebrospinal Venous Insufficiency
(CCSV)). :

“Summary of Problem and Scope: TVAM consists of threading a catheter into a
patient’s venous system, such as the jugular vein, where a balloon attached to the
catheter inflates to widen the vein walls. At least one physician, Dr. Michael Arata
claims the procedure treats the signs and symptoms of autonomic dysfunction in a
number of neurological disorders. The FDA has not reviewed any data that supports °
the safety and effectiveness of balloon angioplasty devices for this intended use.”
(Emphasis added.)

The FDA Safety Communication reported “[t]here is no clear scientific evidence to
support that the treatment of internal jugular venous stenosis: is safe in any patients, including
those with autonomic dysfunction; impacts the symptoms on autonomic dysfunction; changes the
overall course of health conditions derived from autonomic dysfunction; or approves the quality
of life for patients with autonomic dysfunction.” Additionally, the FDA wamed that “TVAM and
other similar experimental procedures have been associated with serious complications” by -
stating, in pertinent part:

“After the safety communication issued in May 2012, the FDA received at least one
medical device report of a balloon rupturing during placement in a patient’s jugular
vein. Physicians ultimately determined the balloon had migrated to the patient’s lung,
requiring surgery to remove the ruptured balloon. [{] “Other serious complications
reported to the FDA or discussed in medical journals include: at least one death,
blood clots in a vein in the brain (which may lead to stroke), cranial nerve damage,
and abdominal bleeding.”

Once again, all interested parties were warmed “[t]he FDA is aware of at least one
physician, Dr. Michael Arata, who has continued to conduct unauthorized clinical research using
these devices [and] [t]he expanded list of neurological disorders he claims to treat warrant an
update to the 2012 safety communication on the subject.”

21. Onor about June 21, 2017, the FDA hand delivered a Notice of Opportunity of
Hearing (NOOH) letter to Respondent, identified as the President of Synergy Health Concepts,
Inc. The NOOH letter advised Respondent of the numerous violations, as generally discussed

herein, and his repeated violations, some of which were previously identified when “...FDA

conducted an inspection from April 10 through May 15, 2012, which resulted in FDA issuing to

10

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO, 800-201 5-014936-

 
