PR Wood

 

 

probation ‘unit office, with or without prior notice throughout-the ternt of probation,

11, NON-PRACTICE WHILE ON PROBATION, Respondent shall notify the Board

 

or its designee tn writing within 15 calendar days of any periods of non-practice lasting more than
30 calendar days and within 15 calendar days of Respondent’s return to practice. Non-practice is
defined as any period of time Respondent is not practicing medivine as defined in Business and
Professions Code sections 2051 and 2052 for at Jeast 40 hours in a calendar month in direct
patient care, clinical activity or teaching, or other activity as approved by the Board, If
Respondent resides in California and is considered to be in nor-practice, Respondeitt shall
comply with all terms and conditions of probation. All time spent in an intensive training
program which has been’ approved by the Board or its designee shall not be considered non- -
practice and does not relieve Respondent from complying with all the terms and conditions of
probation. Practicing medicine in another state of the United States or Federal jurisdiction while
on probation with the medical licensing authority of that state or jurisdiction shall not be
considered non-practice. A Board-ordered suspension of practice shall not be considered as a -
period of non-practice, /

Tn the event Respondent's period of non-practice' while on probation exceeds 18 calendar /
months, Respondent shall successfully complete the Federation of State Medical Boards’ Special
Purpose Examination, or, at the Board’s discretion, a clinical competence assessment program
that meets the criteria of Condition 18 of the current version of the Board’s “Manual of Mode!
Disciplinary Orders and Disciplinary Guidelines” prior to resuming the practice of medicine.

Respondent’s period of non-practice while on probation shall not exceed two (2) years.
Periods of non-practice will not apply to the reduction of the probationary term,

~ Periods of non-practice for a Respondent residing outside of California will relieve
Respondent of the responsibility to comply with the probationary terms and conditions with the
exception of this condition and the following terms and conditions of probation: Obey All Laws;
General Probation Requirements; and Quarterly Declarations,

Wi . .
HTH,

9 . .
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
