CoN DAD A BRB BW YY

wb ow ee

nr:
oo

 

This information was documented on a “TVAM [Transvascular Autonomic Modulation] Intake”
form. After discussing her current symptoms, patient A was advised her symptoms were most
likely the result of “venous compression” and “autonomic dysfunction” which Respondent could |
treat with a procedure that would cost thirteen thousand dollars. The nurse claimed the costs
would be covered by Medicare and her secondary insurance, Anthem Blue Cross. Patient A
agreed to pay an initial deposit of one thousand dollars and an appointment was scheduled for
January 12, 2015, at Respondent's office in Newport Beach, California.

13. According to Respondent’s certified medical records, at some time before the
scheduled office visit with patient A, a lab order was placed for a comprehensive metabolic panel,
complete blood count, “PT/PTT/INR,” a “Salivary Cortisol Test,” and a “SIBO Breath test kit”
with directions to fax the lab results back to Respondent “Attention Clinical Coordinator.” The
Genova Diagnostics test kit for the salivary cortisol test was collected on January 7, 2015, and
completed on January 12, 2015. While the Genova Diagnostics SIBO breath test kit was sent to
patient A after her scheduled procedure was performed, patient A claims the results of the lab
tests “...were not shared with me the patient, and seemed to have no relevancy to the procedure.”

14. Onor about J anuary 12, 2015, patient A had a pre-procedure visit at Respondent’s
office. Patient A was asked to pay another $2,000, which she refused to do, and advised one of
Respondent’s staff that they could seek reimbursement through her insurance. During this brief
office visit, patient A’s vital signs were obtained and she also signed a number of forms, that were
not fully discussed with her, relating to the procedure to be performed the next day, which
allegedly would provide relief for her MS symptoms. Patient A was not adequately informed,
among other things, that the procedure to be performed was not generally accepted within the

medical community,’ she was not advised of the FDA Safety;Communication of May 10, 2012,

4 According to patient A, she was never advised there was disagreement in the medical
community about the TVAM procedure that was performed on January 13, 2015. An informed
consent of January 12, 2015, failed to mention there was disagreement in the medical community
concerning the procedure. Additionally, while there is a type-written procedure note dated
January 13, 2015, with a section entitled “INFORMED CONSENT,” which indicates patient A
was advised of “the incomplete agreement in the medical community of the benefits of the
procedure. .,” that is categorically denied by patient A who claims she was never advised of any
disagreement in the medical community regarding the procedure performed on her. .

6

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 

 
