 

 

Order shall be of no force or effect, except for this paragraph, it shall be inadmissible in any legal
action between the parties, and the Board shall not be disqualified from further action by having
considered this, matter, .

13. The parties agtee that this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order shall be

“null and void and not binding upon the parties unless approved and adopted by the Board, except

for'this paragraph, which shall remain in full force and effect. Respondent fully understands and
agrees that in deciding whether or not to approve and adopt this Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order, the Board may receive oral and written communications from its staff and/or
the Attorney General’s Office. Communications pursuant to. this petagraph shall not disqualify
the Board, any member thereof, and/or any other person from future participation in this or any
other matter affecting or involving respondent. In the event that the Board dogs not, in its
discretion, approve and adopt this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order, with the
exception of this paragraph, it shall not become effective, shall be of no evidentiary value
whatsoever, and shall not be relied upon or introduced in any disciplinary action by either party:
hereto, Respondent further agrees that should this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order
be rejected for any reason by the Board, respondent will assert no claim that the Board, or any
member thereof, was prejudiced by its/his/her review, discussion and/or consideration of this
Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order or of any matter or matters related hereto,

ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
14. This Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order is intended by the parties herein to

be an integrated writing representing the complete, final and exclusive embodiment of the :

agreements of the parties in the above-entitled matter.

15; The parties agree that copies of this Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order,
inéluding copies of the signatures of the parties, my be used in lieu of original documents and
signatures and, further, that such copies shall have the same-force and effect as originals.

16. In consideration of the foregoing admissions and stipulations, the parties agree the
Board may, without further notice to or opportunity to be heard by Respondent, issue and enter
the following Disciplinary Order: |

4
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
