UM BR WwW YO =

Oo wo ND

 

cerebrospinal venous insufficiency (CCSVI), described as a “narrowing (stenosis) of specific
veins in the neck and chest,” the internal jugular and azygos veins. .

10. On or about May 10, 2012, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
issued a safety communication entitled “Chronic Cerebrospinal Venous Insufficiency {[(CCSV]]
Treatment in Multiple Sclerosis Patient: FDA Safety Communication” (hereinafter “FDA Safety
Communication”), In the FDA Safety Communication, CCSVI was described as using “balloon
angioplasty devices or stents to widen the narrowed internal jugular or azygos veins” ina
“procedure [that] is sometimes called ‘liberation therapy’ or the ‘liberation procedure.’” The
FDA warned, “[a]t this time, the FDA believes there is no reliable evidence from controlled
studies that this procedure is effective in treating MS (multiple sclerosis)” and “the criteria used to
diagnose CCSVI have not been adequately established.” The FDA further warned “that using
these medical devices in CCSVI treatment procedures posed a risk to patients for a variety of
reasons” and that “[t]his communication [the’ Safety Communication] is also intended to notify
physicians and clinical investigators planning on conducting clinical trials using medical devices
to treat CCSVI that they must comply with FDA regulations for investigational devices.” .

11. On or about September 5, 2012, the FDA sent a “Warning Letter” to Respondent, who
was identified as the President and Principal Investigator for Synergy Health Concepts, Inc.
Respondent is a board certified diagnostic radiologist who completed a fellowship in
interventional radiology. “He admittedly does not have the training to “treat MS per se” but claims
he can treat symptoms which are “autonomic in nature.” The Warning Letter advised Respondent

of objectionable conditions observed during the [FDA’s] inspection conducted at Synergy Health

2 These reasons included, but were not limited to, because: (1) “There is no clear
diagnostic evidence that CCSVI exists as a distinct clinical disorder or is linked to MS,” (2)
“Venous stenoses seen on imaging tests may be normal variants that do not cause any symptoms
or disease, since they are sometimes seen in healthy people,” (3) “The safety and effectiveness of
using balloon angioplasty devices or stents in the internal jugular or azygos veins has not been
established in any clinical condition; nor has the FDA approved the use of these devices in these
veins,” (4) “There is no clear scientific evidence that the treatment of internal jugular or azygos
venous stenosis is safe in MS patients, impacts the symptoms of MS, changes the overall course
of MS or improves the quality of life for MS patients,” and (5) “It is possible that stent placement
can worsen any venous narrowing. This is because further narrowing has been shown to
sometimes occur with stents placed in normal veins, due to the body’s response to the implant.”

4

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 

 
