 

 

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the course, or not later than
15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later.

3. PROFESSIONALISM PROGRAM (ETHICS COURSE). Within 60 calendar
days of the effective date of this Decision, Respondent shall enroll in a professionalism program,
that meets the requirements of Title 16, California Code of Regulations (CCR) section 1358.1.
Respondent shall participate in and successfully complete that program, Resporident shall
provide any information and documents that the program may deem pertinent. Respondent shall
successfully complete the classroom component of the program not later than six (6) months after
Respondent’s initial enrollment, and the longitudinal component of the program not later than the
time specified by the program, but no later than one (1) year after attending the classroom
component. The professionalism program shall be at Respondent’s expense and shall be in —
addition to the Continuing Medical Education (CME) requirements for renewal of licensure.

A professionalism program taken after the acts that gave rise to the charges in the
Accusation, but prior to the effective date of the Decision may, in the sole discretion of the Board
or its designee, be accepted towards the fulfillment of this condition if the program would have .
been approved by the Board or its designee had the program been taken after the effective date of
this Decision.

Respondent shall submit a certification of successful completion to the Board or its
designee not later than 15 calendar days after successfully completing the program or not later
than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the Decision, whichever is later,

- 4. SOLO PRACTICE PROHIBITION, Respondent is prohibited from engaging in

 

the solo practice of medicine. Prohibited solo practice includes, but is not limited to, a practice

where: 1) Respondent merely shares office space with another physician but is not affiliated for
purposes of providing patient care, or 2) Respondent is the sole physician practitioner at that —
location.

If Respondent fails to establish a practice with another physician or secure employment in
an appropriate practice setting within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this Decision, -

6
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 
