 

 

Disqualification Letter of May 21, 2018. Respondent further agrees that he will not seek
reinstatement from or with the FDA, pursuant to 21 C.F.R. section 812,119, subdivision (f), or
any other applicable authority, to have his eligibility reinstated to conduct clinical trials or
investigations for products regulated by the FDA.

8. QUARTERLY DECLARATIONS. Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations
under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the Board, stating whether there has been
compliance with all the conditions of probation. Respondent shall submit quarterly declarations
not later than 10 calendar days after the end of the preceding quarter,

9, ° GENERAL PROBATION REQUIREMENTS,
Compliance with Probation Unit: Respondent shall comply with the Board’s probation

‘unit,

Address Cha nges: Respondent shall, at all times, keep the Board informed of

Respondents business and residence addresses, email address (if available), and telephone

_humber. Changes of such addresses shal! be immediately communicated in writing to the Board

or its designee.’ Under no circumstances shall a post office box serve as an address of record;
except as allowed by Business and Professions Code section 2021 (b),

Place of Practice: Respondent shall not engage in the practice of medicine in Respondent’s |
or patient’s place of residence, unless the patient resides in a skilled nursing facility or other |
similar licensed facility,

{isease Renewal: Respondent shall maintain a current and renewed California ey s

} and surgeon’s license.

Travel or Residence Outside California: Respondent shall immediately inform the Board

 

or its designee, in writing, of travel to any areas outside the jurisdiction of California which lasts,
or is contemplated to last, more than thirty (30) calendar days. In the event Respondent should — |.
leave the State of California to reside or to practice, Respondent shall notify the Board or its”
designee in writing 30 calendar days prior to the dates of departure and return.
10. INTERVIEW WITH THE BOARD ORITS DESIGNEE. Respondent shall be
available in person upon request for interviews either at Respondent’s place of business or at the
. 7 . ;
STIPULATED SETTLEMENT AND DISCIPLINARY ORDER (800-2015-014936)

 

 
