vA BF WwW NY

nN DS

[Respondent] a Warning Letter dated September 5, 2012.. 2? In general, the violations identified
in the NOOH letter concerned Respondent’s use of a balloon angioplasty technique and device
“the internal jugular veins, and azygos veins (vascular lesions) .. . which were not approved for
dilation of jugular, azygos, renal or iliac veins” with the FDA noting the technique and device had
not been properly approved for such use and “[a]s a result, you continued to place subjects at
increased risk of serious harm, despite having received the 2012 WL [Warning Letter].”
Moreover, the FDA found that Respondent, as a sponsor-investigator, had deliberately
represented in various publications that the use of the balloon angioplasty technique and device
was safe and effective “for the purpose of investigating various diseases other than those for
which the FDA has approved them” with citation to various publications. These representations
were made when there was no reliable evidence from controlled clinical trials to support such
claims. .

22. Onor about May 21, 2018, the FDA issued Respondent a Notice of Denial of Hearing |
and Disqualification Letter to Respondent. ,

23. Patient A has received no relief from her MS symptoms since the TVAM procedure
was performed on her by Respondent on or about January 13, 2015.

24. Respondent committed gross negligence in his care and treatment of patient A which
included, but was not limited to, the following: .

(a) Respondent performed a risky and disproven invasive procedure on

patient A on or about January 13, 2015.

 

SECOND CAUSE FOR DISCIPLINE
‘(Repeated Negligent Acts)

25. Respondent is further subject to disciplinary action under sections 2227 and 2234, as
defined by section 2234, subdivision (c), of the Code, in that he committed repeated negligent acts
in his care and treatment of patient A, as more particularly alleged herein:

26. Respondent committed repeated negligent acts in his care and treatment of patient A
which included, but was not limited to, the following: .

{Tit
11

 

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
