oO eo nN Hn NH

11
12
13
14
15
16

18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28

 

 

Concepts, Inc. (Synergy Health) from April 10, 2012, to May 15, 2012, by an investigator from
the FDA Los Angeles District Office.” According to the Warning Letter, “[t}he inspection was
conducted ... to ensure that data and information contained in requests for Investigational Device
Exemption (IDE), Premarket Approval (PMA) applications, and Premarket Notification
Submissions [were] scientifically valid and accurate” and also “to ensure that human subjects are
protected from undue hazard or risk during the course of scientific investigations.” The
“objectionable” conditions related to “Synergy Health in its role as a sponsor” and Respondent
“{a]s a clinical investigator.” In regard to “Synergy Health in its role as a sponsor,” the FDA
warned of the following objectionable conditions: (1) “Failure to submit an Application to the
FDA and obtain IRB (Investigational Review Board) and FDA approval prior to allowing subjects
to participate in the investigation...” and (2) “Failure to maintain accurate, complete, and current
device shipment records ...” In regard to being a clinical investigator, the FDA warned of the
following objectionable conditions: (1) “Failure to ensure that informed consent was obtained in
accordance with [federal regulations]” and (2) “Failure to maintain accurate, complete, and
current records related to your participation in the investigation.. 3

12. Onor about late 2014, patient A, a then-71-year old female, who had been diagnosed
with MS in 2011, discovered Respondent after doing online research concerning possible
treatments for MS symptoms. Believing that Respondent’s treatment could potentially provide
relief for her MS symptoms, she sent an email to his office and was contacted shortly thereafter by
a nurse that worked for Respondent. The nurse did an initial patient intake interview over the
phone in which patient A was asked a series of questions about her MS and related symptoms. In
response to the questions, patient A advised the nurse she was diagnosed with MS in 2011 and
reported that in the past year she had suffered severe symptoms with chronic fatigue and tiredness,
chest tightness (more severe at night), cold intolerance, bowel disturbances, and cramping in her

right leg. When asked, patient A also identified other symptoms classified as mild to moderate.

3 The Warning Letter noted, “[t]he violations described above are not intended to be an all
inclusive list of problems that may exist with your firm and your clinical study. It is your firm’s
responsibility as a study sponsor; and you, as a clinical investigator, to ensure compliance with the
Act and applicable regulations.”

5

 

 

MICHAEL ANDREW ARATA, M.D., ACCUSATION NO. 800-2015-014936

 
