administrative prosecutor and asked him to return to the conference. At 10:45 a.m., the ALJ
admitted Dr. Farrag to the conference and informed him of the prehearing conference scheduled
for October 2, 2023. The ALJ also confirmed Dr. Farrag’s mailing address of record. Dr. Farrag
stated that the address is under construction and cannot accept mail but asked that OAH continue
to send mail to that address and advised that he would pick up the mail at the post office. He stated
that he had no alternate address.

Following the scheduling conference, on September 1, 2023, OAH sent a Notice of
Prehearing Conference to the parties that notified the parties that a prehearing conference would
be held on October 2, 2023, at 9:30 a.m., by video-conference. The notice included a web link to
join the video-conference and also a telephone number to call into the conference. The Notice of
Prehearing Conference informed Dr. Farrag that the failure to appear or to give timely notice of
his inability to appear at the prehearing conference could result in a decision against him.

On September 6, 2023, OAH also sent an email to Dr. Farrag that stated the following:

Since we did have some mail returned previously, the ALJ wanted to be sure you

received the notice for the upcoming prehearing conference scheduled for Monday

October 2 at 9:30am via the WebEx platform. (This exact notice has been mailed

to the address you confirmed with the ALJ).

Please note on the notice that the web address and meeting room number is listed.

Should you have any difficulty please be sure to reach out before the start of the

hearing. I do typically respond to emails so via email or phone is fine.

On September 8, 2023, OAH sent a scheduling order that notified the parties of the date
and time of the prehearing conference and stated that Dr. Farrag shall inform OAH of any. changes
to his mailing address, email address, and telephone number. On September 26, 2023, OAH
received the scheduling order that was sent to Dr. Farrag by first-class mail returned as

undeliverable with the notation “Vacant” stamped on the envelope. The Notice of Prehearing

Conference was returned to OAH as undeliverable on September 29, 2023. The email was not

 
