returned as undeliverable, and there was no response to the email sent by the OAH docket specialist
prior to the start of the prehearing conference.

On October 2, 2023, the ALJ held the prehearing conference. The administrative prosecutor
appeared on behalf of the State. Dr. Farrag did not appear. At 9:33 a.m., the ALJ sent an email to
Dr. Farrag with an invitation to join the conference. After waiting until 9:46 a.m., the ALJ
commenced the prehearing conference. The ALJ noted that neither Dr. Farrag nor anyone
authorized to represent him appeared at the prehearing conference after 16 minutes from the
scheduled start time. The ALJ then proceeded with the prehearing conference, and the
administrative prosecutor moved for a proposed default order. The ALJ granted the motion for a
proposed default order.

At 6:22 p.m., on October 2, 2023, Dr. Farrag sent an email in response to the OAH docket
specialist who had emailed him the prehearing conference reminder on September 8, 2023. The
email stated:

I truly apologize for missing the date today very unintentionally. I am available

any day and anytime. Kindly apologize to the very Honorable Judge on my behalf.

I’m all into discussing, and willing to do whatever the Judge is deciding. I had a

computer problem, while my laptop is a brand new one. Very suddenly. I handled

this very sudden issue, and will be receiving a temporary one overnighted to me

first thing tomorrow morning. One more time, my extreme apologies.

Dr. Farrag did not provide an explanation as to why he was unable to contact OAH using his phone
or call into the conference using the call-in number.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “if, after receiving proper notice as provided in
Regulation .05C of this chapter, a party fails to attend or participate, either personally or through

a representative, in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the ALJ may

proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated by the

 

 
