FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel B concludes that Dr. Farrag has defaulted and has not filed exceptions to

 

the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted from the allegations
of fact in the March 30, 2023 charges and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence:

1. The Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on May
22, 2019, under License Number D87559. The Respondent’s license was current
through September 30, 2024.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent held active medical licenses in
Florida, Georgia and Alabama, and inactive licenses in North Carolina, Oklahoma,
and Utah. On or about February 22, 2023, the Alabama State Board of Medical
Examiners (the “Alabama Board”) issued an Order Temporarily Suspending
License and Setting Hearing against the Respondent.

3. On or about January 23, 2023, a staff member at the Federation of State
Medical Boards (“FSMB”) sent an email to the Board reporting its discovery that
the Respondent submitted forged documents in connection with his application for
privileges at a health care facility (the “FL Facility”) in Sarasota, Florida.
Specifically, during the credentialing process, the FL Facility contacted the
residency director (the “Residency Director’) of the Respondent’s residency.
program (the “Residency Program”), which the Respondent represented that he had
completed the entire three-year program, to verify his completion. In response, the
Residency Director notified the FL Facility that the Respondent had been
terminated for professionalism issues after Program Year |.

4, After receiving the report from FSMB, the Board initiated an investigation
of the Respondent.

5. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained, inter alia, investigative
materials from FSMB, the FL Facility, the Residency Director and the Residency
Program, including the Respondent’s residency file. The Board reviewed its own
licensing file of the Respondent.

6. The Board’s investigation revealed that the Respondent, in applying for
privileges at the FL Facility, submitted at least four documents purportedly from
the Residency Director that were altered or forged. These documents contained
statements attributed to the Residency Director, as well as the Residency Director’s
signatures, that were all fraudulent. Moreover, the Respondent submitted a training
certificate purportedly from the Residency Program that had been altered.
