7. The Respondent impersonated the Residency Director by using a fake email
address purportedly belonging to the Residency Director to create the impression
that the Residency Director submitted these documents to the FL Facility, when in
fact it was the Respondent who submitted these forged and altered documents.

8. Moreover, the Respondent submitted fictitious emails purportedly from
staff members at the American Board of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
falsely stating that the Respondent was eligible for board-certification.

9. In reviewing its own licensing file of the Respondent, the Board discovered
that the Respondent also made material misrepresentations and submitted forged
documents.

10. On or about April 2, 2019, the Board received an Application for Initial
Medical Licensure (the “Initial Application”), which was dated March 26, 2019,
from the Respondent.

11. In the Initial Application under numeral 13 entitled “Postgraduate
Training,” the Respondent misrepresented that he attended the Residency Program
from July 2009 to June 2014, when in fact he only completed 11 months of training
from July 1, 2009, to May 25, 2011, as shown by the Respondent’s Certificate of
Postgraduate Training the Board obtained from the Residency Program. In order
to qualify for licensure as a graduate of a foreign medical school, the Respondent
had to have successfully completed at least two years of training in a U.S.
postgraduate clinical medical education program accredited by an organization
recognized by the Board, which he did not.

12. As part of the credentialing process for initial licensure with the Board, the.
Respondent was required to have the Residency Program submit a Verification of
Postgraduate Medical Education (the “Verification Form”) to the Board. On or
about April 24, 2019, the Board received Verification Form purportedly from the
Chairman of the Residency Program verifying that the Respondent attended the
Residency Program from July 1, 2009, to June 30, 2014. During the investigation
when Board staff showed the Residency Program Chairman the Verification Form,
he denied ever issuing that Verification Form and stated that the signature on the
form was a forged signature.

13. Moreover, in the Initial Application under numeral 16 entitled “Character
and Fitness Questions,” the Respondent checked “NO” to the following questions:

f. Has a hospital, related health care facility, HMO, or
alternative health care system ever denied your application, failed to
renew your privileges, including your privileges as a resident, or
limited, restricted, suspended, or revoked your privileges in any
way?

 

 
