disciplinary charges (the “Disciplinary Charges”), case number 2222-0116 B, after the
Board made findings including that the Respondent’s practice regarding the resuscitation
of newborn babies violated the standard of care* and that the Respondent was guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine when she violated a supervisor's order
to not attend deliveries at the Hospital.* .

7. On or around June 1, 2023, the Respondent voluntarily signed a consent
order (the “Consent Order”)° to resolve the Disciplinary Charges.

8. Among other things, the Consent Order required that the Respondent enroll
in and successfully complete a Board-approved health program (the “Health Program”).

9. As part of the Respondent’s participation in the Health Program, the
Respondent underwent evaluations (the “Evaluations”) and was diagnosed with health
conditions.° |

10. A medical specialist reviewed the pertinent documents, including, but not

limited to, documents contained in the Board’s investigative file from the Disciplinary

3 The Board submitted the medical records of ten (10) patients to a peer review entity and two peer
reviewers, each board-certified in neonatology, independently reviewed the records and determined that the’
Respondent violated the standard of care for nine (9) out of ten (10) patients.

‘ The Respondent was charged with violating Health Occ. § 14-404(a): (3)(ii) Is guilty of unpr ofessional
conduct in the practice of medicine; (22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by appropriate
peer review for the delivery of quality medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this State; and (40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as
determined by appropriate peer review. .
> The Consent Order took effect when the Board’s Executive Director signed the Consent on June 7, 2023.
° For confidentiality reasons, the specific information contained in the Evaluations will not be disclosed in
this document. This information will be disclosed to the Respondent upon request. The Panel reviewed this
information prior to the issuance of this Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine.
