COMAR 10.32.02.07E(3). Because the Panel has already determined that Dr. Yerokun’s
conviction for Conspiracy to Make False Statements Related to Health Care Matters is a crime
involving moral turpitude there are no material issues of law to resolve, and Dr. Yerokun does not
dispute that he was convicted of the offense. The Panel, in its discretion, therefore, denies Dr.
Yerokun’s request for a hearing.

Section 14-404(b)(2) of the Health Occupations Article provides, “After completion of the
appellate process if the conviction has not been reversed or the plea has not been set aside with
respect to 4 crime involving moral turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation of a
license on the certification by the Office of the Attorney General.” In the Final Decision and
Order, issued on May 19, 2023, Panel A determined that Dr. Yerokun’s conviction and guilty plea
to one count of Conspiracy to Make False Statements Related to Health Care Matters, 18 U.S.C..
§ 371, is a crime involving moral turpitude and suspended Dr. Yerokun’s license to practice
medicine. The relevant portion of the discussion section from the May 19, 2023 order is as

follows:

Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1) mandates the automatic suspension of a
physician’s medical license when a disciplinary panel concludes that a physician
was convicted of or pleads guilty to a crime involving moral turpitude.? Under
Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1), a disciplinary panel has the obligation and discretion to
determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral turpitude for licensing
and disciplinary purposes. “[I]t is settled that whatever else [moral turpitude] may
mean .. . a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element is a crime
involving moral turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of offenses
involving intentional dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes involving
moral turpitude[.]” Jd. at 459-60. “[I]n the context of a licensing board’s review
of the conduct of its licensee, the concept of moral turpitude is rather
broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians, 162 Md. App. 457, 483
(2005).

The Court of Appeals has also established that “[a] guilty plea is an
admission of conduct that constitutes ail the elements of a formal criminal charge”

“ At the time the Petition was filed, Dr. Yerokun had not been sentenced, which is why the panel proceeded under
Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1) instead of Health Oce. §14-404(b)(2).

6
