and that [bly entering a plea of guilty, the accused is not simply stating that he did
the discrete acts described in the indictment; he is admitting guilt of a substantive
crime.” Metheny v. State, 359 Md. 576, 599 (2000) (internal citations and quotation
marks omitted). A guilty plea “also serves as a stipulation that no proof by the
prosecution need [be] advanced. . . . It supplies both evidence and verdict, [thus]
ending [the] controversy.” Jd.

Dr. Yerokun’s Crimes Involved Moral Turpitude.

Dr. Yerokun argues that the crime he pled guilty to is not a crime involving
moral turpitude because it did not involve the prescribing of controlled substances
or impersonating another. Dr. Yerokun asserts that he was naive, and he relied on
the Company’s assurances that he did not need to contact the patients or conduct a
more thorough examination. Dr. Yerokun contends that his crime does not rise to
the level of a crime involving moral turpitude because the Company was the
mastermind behind the scheme to defraud Medicare and Medicaid, and he had a
limited role in the operation.

“Determining whether an individual has been convicted of a crime
involving moral turpitude ‘necessarily begins with an examination of the criminal
statute itself.” Burke v. Maryland Bd. of Physicians, 250 Md. App. 334, 348, cert.
denied, Burke v. Md. Bd. of Physicians, 475 Md. 705 (2021) (quoting Attorney
Grievance Comm'n of Md. v. Walman, 280 Md. 453, 460 (1977)). The language
of the statute that Dr. Yerokun pled guilty to, 18 U.S.C. § 371, is:

If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense
against the United States, or to defraud the United States, or any
agency thereof in any manner or for any purpose, and one or more
of such persons do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy,
each shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five
years, or both.

Read together with the elements of the crime enumerated in the plea agreement, an
intent to defraud is an essential element of the crime that Dr. Yerokun pled guilty
to. A “significant characteristic of conspiracy to commit a crime is that the
defendant, to be found guilty of conspiracy, must have a specific intent to commit
the offense which is the object of the conspiracy.” Alston v. State, 414 Md. 92,
114-15 (2010). Accordingly, through Dr. Yerokun’s conspiracy, he possessed the
specific intent to knowingly defraud the U.S. Government, which constitutes a
crime involving moral turpitude per se. Based on the analysis of the elements of
the crime to which he pled guilty, Dr. Yerokun’s level of culpability is irrelevant.

In addition to the elements of the crime, the facts in support of the guilty
plea also establish that Dr. Yerokun’s crime involved moral turpitude. In
considering the facts of the case, the relevant consideration is whether the crime
“was accompanied by a fraudulent or dishonest intent.” Walman, 280 Md. at 462.
