and the type of durable medical equipment (DME) or genetic testing that Yerokun
was supposed to order for them.

Much of the patient information that Yerokun received from Company A was pre-
populated, that is, it had been filled in before Yerokun received it... According to
Yerokun, he understood his assignment to be to only review the charts. Through
the electronic portal that Company A made available to defendant Yerokun, he
electronically signed the patient forms and orders he received from Company A.
Yerokun signed the patient forms and certified that the DME and genetic tests were
medically necessary. For the genetic tests, he also signed a separate letter of
medical necessity.

Yerokun had no prior doctor-patient relationship with the Medicare or Medicaid
beneficiaries and did not see or communicate with them. Before Yerokun signed
the orders, he made little effort to find out how or from whom the patient
information was obtained, who collected the information, the qualifications of any
person gathering or providing the information, or whether the information was
accurate and complete. Yerokun provided no follow-up care for these patients after
he signed the orders for them to receive DME or genetic testing.

By knowingly and willfully electronically signing the orders, Yerokun made false
and fraudulent statements and documents by certifying medical necessity. The
statements and documents were false because, among other things, Yerokun did not
have adequate information to access medical necessity for the beneficiaries. In
addition, he rarely, if ever, declined to sign any orders. Moreover, for most of the
patients, less than a minute elapsed between when he accessed the patient’s
information through the electronic portal and when he signed the order for DME or
genetic testing. Accordingly, he knew his false and fraudulent statements were
untrue when he made them.

Yerokun’s false statements and representations concerned material facts because
Medicare and Medicaid would not have paid the claims submitted by the DME
companies and testing laboratories if they had known that Yerokun had no
physician-patient relationship with the beneficiaries, did not see or evaluate them,
and spent only seconds to minutes reviewing the patient information.

> The Plea Agreement stated that because the type of genetic testing Dr. Yerokun ordered did not diagnose
cancer, Medicare only covered such tests in limited circumstances. Medicare did not cover the genetic
testing for beneficiaries who did not have cancer or lacked symptoms of cancer.

4
