... Yerokun’s orders for DME and genetic testing were not properly payable and
reimbursable by Medicare and Medicaid because, among other reasons, Yerokun
had no physician-patient relationship with the beneficiaries and did not see or
evaluate them. Therefore, Yerokun was not able to accurately certify that the
services were medically necessary.

Company A paid Yerokun approximately $20 for each order for DME or genetic
testing that he signed. Between March 2019 and April 2021, Company A paid
Yerokun $44,860 by electronically depositing funds into a bank account [Yerokun
maintained]. During this time period, Yerokun ordered DME and genetic tests for
2,184 Medicare beneficiaries.

5. On September 21, 2022, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Missouri
accepted Dr. Yerokun’s guilty plea. .

6. On May 19, 2023, Board Disciplinary Panel A issued an Order suspending the
license of Dr. Yerokun, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1). .

7. On March 13, 2023, Dr. Yerokun was sentenced to five years of supervised
probation and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $399,021.00.

8. The time for filing an appeal has passed, the conviction has not been reversed, and
the guilty plea has not been set aside.

DISCUSSION

Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), Dr. Yerokun may respond to the order to show
cause, in writing, to address the following limited issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b)
Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the
defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.” Dr.
Yerokun submitted a response to the Petition arguing that the crime he pled guilty to was not a
crime involving moral turpitude and asking to address the Panel at a limited evidentiary hearing
on the same issue. The ability to address the panel at a hearing, however, is “discretionary based

on the existence of genuine issues of material fact or law as determined by the disciplinary panel.”

5
