defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.”
Dr. Yerokun does not deny that he pled guilty to one count of Conspiracy to Make False
Statements Related to Health Care Matters. Nor does he argue that he was misidentified as the
defendant in the criminal case. Rather, Dr. Yerokun argues that (1) the crime he pled guilty to is
not a crime involving moral turpitude; and (2) he requests a hearing prior to any action taken by
the Board.

Health Occ. §14-404(6)(1) mandates the automatic suspension of a physician’s medical
license when a disciplinary panel concludes that a physician was convicted of or pleads guilty to
a crime involving moral turpitude.* Under Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1), a disciplinary panel has
the obligation and discretion to determine what types of crimes are crimes involving moral
turpitude for licensing and disciplinary purposes. “[I]t is settled that whatever else [moral
turpitude] may mean... a crime in which an intent to defraud is an essential element is a crime
involving moral turpitude. It is also settled that the related group of offenses involving
intentional dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are crimes involving moral turpitude[.]” Jd.
at 459-60. “[IJn the context of a licensing board’s review of the conduct of its licensee, the
concept of moral turpitude is rather broad.” Oltman v. Maryland State Bd. Of Physicians, 162
Md. App. 457, 483 (2005).

The Court of Appeals has also established that “[a] guilty plea is an admission of conduct
that constitutes all the elements of a formal criminal charge” and that [b]y entering a plea of
guilty, the accused is not simply stating that he did the discrete acts described in the indictment;
he is admitting guilt of a substantive crime.” Metheny v. State, 359 Md. 576, 599 (2000)
(internal citations and quotation marks omitted). A guilty plea “also serves asa stipulation that

4 At the time the Petition was filed, Dr. Yerokun had not been sentenced, which is why the Panel proceeded under
Health Occ. §14-404(b)(1) instead of Health Occ. §14-404(b)(2).

5
