In pleading guilty, Dr. Yerokun admitted that he knowingly and willfully made
false and fraudulent statements and documents by certifying medical necessity for
genetic medical testing or DME. Dr. Yerokun admitted that he never saw the
patients and, for most of the patients, spent less than a minute between when he
accessed the patient’s information through the electronic portal and when he signed
the order for DME or genetic testing. Dr. Yerokun also admitted to accepting
money in exchange for each order for DME or genetic testing that he signed even
though he was not able to accurately certify that the services were medically
necessary. In doing so, Dr. Yerokun submitted fraudulent health care claims to the
government for purposes of his own personal gain. Walman, 280 Md. at 459-60.
Therefore, the facts of this case also establish that Dr. Yerokun pled guilty to a
crime involving moral turpitude.

Request for a Hearing.

Dr. Yerokun argues that “[a]t a minimum, he should be afforded a hearing
before any action is taken because his guilty plea does not involve a fact-pattern
and crime of moral turpitude.” As discussed above, the Panel finds that Dr.
Yerokun did plead guilty to a crime involving moral turpitude based on the
elements of the crime and the facts in support of the guilty plea. In enacting Health
Occ. § 14-404(b)(1), the Maryland General Assembly has authorized the mandatory
suspension of a license without the need for a hearing for crimes involving moral
turpitude prior to sentencing or during the pendency of any appellate proceedings.
The Court of Appeals in Felsenberg determined that “[t]he intent of the Legislature
in directing summary treatment of a charge based on the conviction of a crime
involving moral turpitude is clear.” 351 Md. at 304.

In this case, the State appropriately initiated suspension procedures under
Health Occ. § 14-404(b)(1). Unlike cases charged under Health Occ. § 14-404(a),
where a licensee has the right to an evidentiary hearing and the opportunity to
appear for a settlement conference, there is no statutory or regulatory right to a
hearing for cases charged under Health Occ. § 14-404(b). Rather, the decision to
grant a hearing is discretionary based on the existence of genuine issues of material
fact or law as determined by the disciplinary panel. COMAR 10.32.02.07E(@3). The
Felsenberg Court explained, “when the charge rests solely upon the conviction,
there is no need to inquire into the underlying conduct” and that the question of
“[whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude is an issue which ordinarily
may be resolved without the need for evidence or fact-finding.” 351 Md. at 303.
Dr. Yerokun’s “guilty plea served as a means of providing for an expedited and
summary disposition by the Board.” Burke, 250 Md. App. at 359.

The determination of whether the crime in this. case involved moral
turpitude is a question of law, which does not require an evidentiary hearing or
consideration of any facts beyond the elements of the conviction itself.
Accordingly, Dr. Yerokun’s request for a hearing is denied.
