4. The factual basis for Dr. Yerokun’s guilty plea, agreed to by the parties, included
the following statements:

From on or about February 2019 through April 2021, Oluwatobi Alabi Yerokun was a
physician who practiced medicine, among other places, in the State of Missouri.

 

Medicare and Medicaid were “health care benefit programs” as defined by 18 U.S.C.§
24(b) and “Federal health care programs” as set forth in 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b(b).

On multiple occasions between 2015 and 2018, Yerokun signed enrollment applications
with Medicare which stated:

I agree to abide by Medicare laws, regulations, and program
instructions that apply to me...I understand that payment of a claim by
Medicare is conditioned upon the claim and the underlying transaction
complying with such laws, regulations, and program instructions
(including, but not limited to, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute...)

From on or about February 2019 to April 2021, certain individuals and entities, such as
marketing, physician recruiting, and telemedicine companies, some of whom were
unknown to Yerokun, developed a scheme that targeted Medicare and Medicaid patients
to obtain reimbursement from those programs and information about purported
“patients,” such as their insurance information. Company A, a locum tenens physician
staffing company, solicited Yerokun and contracted with him to work as a telemedicine
provider...Company A gave Yerokun access to electronic portals so that he could receive
information about the patients assigned to him. The information included, among other
things, the patient’s demographic information, the identity of the insurance provider such
as Medicare and Medicaid, and the type of durable medical equipment (DME) or genetic
testing that Yerokun was supposed to order for them.?

Much of the patient information that Yerokun received from Company A was pre-
populated, that is, it had been filled in before Yerokun received it... According to
Yerokun, he understood his assignment to be to only review the charts. Through the
electronic portal that Company A made available to defendant Yerokun, he electronically
signed the patient forms and orders he received from Company A. Yerokun signed the
patient forms and certified that the DME and genetic tests were medically necessary. For
the genetic tests, he also signed a separate letter of medical necessity.

Yerokun had no prior doctor-patient relationship with the Medicare or Medicaid
beneficiaries and did not see or communicate with them. Before Yerokun signed the
orders, he made little effort to find out how or from whom the patient information was

’ The Plea Agreement stated that because the type of genetic testing Dr. Yerokun ordered did not
diagnose cancer, Medicare only covered such tests in limited circumstances. Medicare did not cover the
genetic testing for beneficiaries who did not have cancer or lacked symptoms of cancer.

3
