obtained, who collected the information, the qualifications of any person gathering or
providing the information, or whether the information was accurate and complete.
Yerokun provided no follow-up care for these patients after he signed the orders for them
to receive DME or genetic testing.

By knowingly and willfully electronically signing the orders, Yerokun made false and
fraudulent statements and documents by certifying medical necessity. The statements
and documents were false because, among other things, Yerokun did not have adequate
information to access medical necessity for the beneficiaries. In addition, he rarely, if
ever, declined to sign any orders. Moreover, for most of the patients, less than a minute
elapsed between when he accessed the patient’s information through the electronic portal
and when he signed the order for DME or genetic testing. Accordingly, he knew his false
and fraudulent statements were untrue when he made them.

 

Yerokun’s false statements and representations concerned material facts because
Medicare and Medicaid would not have paid the claims submitted by the DME
companies and testing laboratories if they had known that Yerokun had no physician-
patient relationship with the beneficiaries, did not see or evaluate them, and spent only
seconds to minutes reviewing the patient information.

... Yerokun’s orders for DME and genetic testing were not properly payable and

reimbursable by Medicare and Medicaid because, among other reasons, Yerokun had no

physician-patient relationship with the beneficiaries and did not see or evaluate them.

Therefore, Yerokun was not able to accurately certify that the services were medically

necessary.

Company A paid Yerokun approximately $20 for each order for DME or genetic testing

that he signed. Between March 2019 and April 2021, Company A paid Yerokun $44,860

by electronically depositing funds into a bank account [Yerokun maintained]. During

this time period, Yerokun ordered DME and genetic tests for 2,184 Medicare

beneficiaries.

5. On September 21, 2022, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Missouri accepted Dr. Yerokun’s guilty plea.

6. As of the date of the Petition, Dr. Yerokun had not been sentenced.

DISCUSSION
Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), Dr. Yerokun may respond to the order to show

cause, in writing, to address the following limited issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b)

Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the
