qd) On the filing of certified docket entries with the Board by the Office of the
Attorney General, a disciplinary panel shall order the suspension of a
license if the licensee is convicted of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere
with respect to a crime involving moral turpitude, whether or not any
appeal or other proceeding is pending to have the conviction or plea set
aside.

(2) After completion of the appellate process if the conviction has not been
reversed or the plea has not been set aside with respect to a crime
involving moral turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation
of a license on the certification by the Office of the Attorney General.

Md. Code Ann., Health Occupations Article (“Health Occ.”) § 14-404(b) (2021 Repl. Vol.).
Attached to the Petition were copies of the criminal information, plea agreement, statement of
facts, certified docket entries, and judgment.

On June 27, 2022, Dr. Riyaz filed a response to the Petition and show cause order, Dr.
Riyaz stated that he was happy to meet with the Board to discuss the circumstances further”

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel A issues this Final
Decision and Order. COMAR 10.32.02.07H(1).

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following:

1. Farhaad Riyaz, M.D., was originally licensed to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland on August 11, 2020, under license number D90145, through the Interstate
Medical Licensure Compact.

2. On December 13, 2021, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia, Alexandria Division, Case Number 1:21-cr-00264-LMB, Dr. Riyaz was
charged with one count of Mail Fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1341.° On
December 13, 2021, Dr. Riyaz pled guilty to the sole count of Mail Fraud.

? To the extent that Dr. Riyaz’s offer could be interpreted as a request for a hearing, the Panel, in its discretion,
denies Dr. Riyaz’s request. COMAR 10,32.02.07E(3)

> The statute provides:

Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining
money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, or to
sell, dispose of, loan, exchange, alter, give away, distribute, supply, or furnish or procure for
unlawful use any counterfeit or spurious coin, obligation, security, or other article, or anything

2
