would purchase rare or limited-edition guitars for thousands of dollars each
and return an item similar in shape or color, but that cost substantially less.

2 ae a

Altogether, as a result of the scheme, RIYAZ caused Amazon losses of
over $250,000, and obtained property with a value over $250,000.

4, Dr. Riyaz further agreed:

RIYAZ has read the allegations in the Criminal Information in this
case and agrees that they are all true and correct and would be proven to a jury
beyond a reasonable doubt.

This statement of facts includes those facts necessary to support the
plea agreement between the defendant and the United States. It does not
include each and every fact known to the defendant or to the United States,
and it is not intended to be a full enumeration of all the facts surrounding the
defendant’s case.

The actions of the defendant, as recounted above, were in all respects
knowing and deliberate, and were not committed by mistake, accident, or
other innocent reason.

5. On March 22, 2022, the Court sentenced Dr. Riyaz to one day of incarceration
followed by three years of supervised probation, with the first six months under house
arrest. Dr. Riyaz was also ordered to perform 200 hours of community service, pay a
fine of $20,000 and pay restitution in the amount of $312,964.38.

6. Dr. Riyaz did not appeal his conviction within the time prescribed by law and the
guilty plea and conviction have not been set aside.

DISCUSSION
Pursuant to COMAR 10.32.02.07E(2), Dr. Riyaz had the opportunity to respond to the
order to show cause, in writing, to address the following limited issues: “(a) Lack of conviction
or plea; (b) Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent
with the defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than
mitigation.” In his response, Dr. Riyaz admits that he pled guilty to one count of Mail Fraud. He

states that from 2014 until 2017 he had disputes with Amazon regarding items that he purchased
