 

6. On or about July 9, 2014, the Board received a complaint that had been filed by a
child psychiatrist (Dr. R”) from Hospital A, alleging in part that Dr. El-Beshir had
prescribed a “high load” of sedating and psychotropic medications to a pediatric patient
in the practice and that the Respondent instead of Dr. El-Beshir had been returning
messages intended for Dr. El-Beshir. According to Dr. R., the Respondent had
answered clinical questions even though he is not a licensed provider.
7. Based on the complaint referenced in {| 6, the Board initiated an investigation of
Dr. El-Beshir, under Case #2015-0013, which resulted in a February 26, 2015 voluntary
surrender of his medical license, stating in part:
| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of this matter
and if the investigation continued, Disciplinary Panel A would have
ordered the summary suspension of my license to practice in
Maryland and would have pursued disciplinary charges under
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (18) and (22) based upon my
prescribing of psychotropic medications to minors and practicing
medicine with an unauthorized individual . . . | acknowledge that for
all purposes relevant to medical licensure, the investigative findings
and allegations of violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (18)
and (22) will be treated as if proven.°
8. Also based on receipt of the complaint referenced in § 6, the Board initiated an
investigation of the Respondent.
9. On or about December 9, 2014, the Board notified the Respondent that it had

opened a full investigation based on allegations that he had engaged in the

unauthorized practice of medicine and in furtherance of its investigation, the Board

>Pertinent to this investigation, Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(18) provides that —

subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote
of a majority of the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee: ... Practices medicine with an unauthorized
person or aids an unauthorized person in the practice of medicine.

4
