interfering with the care being delivered. Physicians may fail to probe sensitive
areas when taking the medical history or may fail to perform intimate parts of the
physical examination...When treating themselves or immediate family members,
physicians may be inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or
training.
...Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant
when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family
members may be reluctant to state their preferences for another physician or
decline a recommendation for fear of offending the physician...
...Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write
prescriptions for controlled substances for themselves or immediate family
members.
9. Shortly after receiving the April 1, 2014 complaint, the Board initiated an
investigation.
10. By letter dated May 5, 2014, the Board notified the Respondent of its
investigation and issued to the Respondent a subpoena for the medical records of
Patients A and B. The Respondent stated she was unable to produce all the records in
her possession for Patients A and B as her computer “server” was not functioning.
11. On or about May 8, 2014, a second complaint was filed by a physician (Dr. C)
who had seen Patient A for medical care the day before. Dr. C alleged in her complaint
that the Respondent had treated Patient A after inadequately evaluating him, and that
her use of medications for Patient A was inappropriate.
12. Onor about May 15, 2014, the Board’s staff interviewed Dr. C, who stated that
the Respondent acknowledged to her that she (the Respondent) had prescribed several
medications for Patient A. According to Patient A’s medical record and Dr. C's
interview, the Respondent had been prescribing several medications to Patient A

including a Schedule |V barbiturate, a Schedule IV benzodiazepine, blood pressure

medications including a diuretic, Vitamin D supplementation, allergy medications and a
