a. As part of the approval process, Dr. Rassael shall submit to Disciplinary Panel B the
name and professional credentials of a Maryland licensed physician that he proposes
to conduct the supervision and monitoring required by the panel;

b. Dr. Rassael shall provide the panel-approved supervising physician with a copy of the
charging document, Consent Order, MPRP documents, and whatever other written
materials the panel deems relevant;

c. The supervising physician shall notify the panel in writing of his/her acceptance of
the supervisory and monitoring role of the terms and conditions deemed applicable by
the MPRP. Supervision and monitoring of the implementation of the MPRP terms
and conditions shall commence following panel approval and the termination of
suspension by the panel; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Rassael obtains panel approval of a licensed physician supervisor,

and his practice guidelines, boundary protection plans and organizational plan for office changes,
Dr. Rassael may submit a written petition to the panel requesting termination of his suspension.
After consideration of the petition and panel approval of the supervisor, practice guidelines and
boundary protection and organizational plans, Dr. Rassael’s suspension may be administratively
terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that after the suspension is terminated, Dr. Rassael shall be placed on

PROBATION for a minimum period of THREE (3) YEARS! During the probationary period,
Dr. Rassael shall fully and satisfactorily comply with the following probationary terms and

conditions:

' Dr. Rassael’s license expires on September 30, 2017. If Dr. Rassael fails to renew his license before it expires, the
probation or suspension will not be terminated and the time period of probation/suspension will be tolled until his
license is reinstated. COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a). If Dr. Rassael’s license expires while his license is suspended or
while he is on probation, Dr. Rassael may not petition Panel B for termination of probation/suspension until he
applies for and meets the requirements for reinstatement. See COMAR 10.32.02.06A (4).

3
