Dr. Rassael is required to have a chaperone present during all interactions with patients,
for both telephone and in-person patient encounters, with documented log-in and log-out
by a chaperone for each patient;

Dr. Rassael shall not use or employ family members as chaperones;

Dr. Rassael shall not have any contact with patients outside of care and treatment for
patients’ medical needs;

Dr. Rassael shall continue enrollment with the MPRP during the entire length of the
probationary period. Dr. Rassael shall continue his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. Dr. Rassael shall fully and timely
cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including
but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate
and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed
by MPRP;

Dr. Rassael shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the
Board and MPRP. Dr. Rassael shall sign the release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including disclosure of any and all
MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. Dr. Rassael shall also sign any written
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) outside entities (including all of Dr. Rassael’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Dr. Rassael and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Rassael including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol treatment records;.

Dr. Rassael shall undergo periodic polygraph examination as a clinical tool for
compliance at the discretion of the MPRP;

Dr. Rassael shall continue in the Maintenance and Accountability Seminars (“MAS-12”)
Program for twelve (12) months.

. At a minimum, Dr. Rassael shall meet with the panel-approved supervising physician
once a month for the duration of probation. The purpose of the monitoring shall be to
focus on the implementation and maintenance of the ethical and professional boundary
terms and conditions of probation outlined in a-g.

The supervising physician shall submit quarterly reports to the panel detailing Dr.
Rassael’s progress in implementing and maintaining compliance with these terms and
conditions;

The supervising physician shall immediately contact the Board if there are any concerns
or complaints regarding personal boundary issues or there are any issues in complying
with the terms and conditions of this order;
