k. Dr. Rassael has sole responsibility for ensuring that the supervising physician submits the
required quarterly reports to the panel in a timely manner;

1. Disciplinary Panel B has sole authority over any changes in supervision and monitoring
and must approve and ratify any changes in supervision and monitoring or the frequency
of supervision and monitoring;
m. In the event that Dr. Rassael’s supervising physician discontinues the supervisory and
monitoring process for any reason, Dr. Rassael shall immediately notify Disciplinary
Panel B. Dr. Rassael shall be solely responsible for submitting a replacement candidate to
serve as his supervisor under the terms specified above;
n. An unsatisfactory report from the supervising physician shall constitute a violation of
probation and this Order; and it is further
ORDERED that Dr. Rassael shall comply with the Maryland Medical Practice Act, Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 — 14-702, and all laws and regulations governing the practice
of medicine in Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Board or Disciplinary Panel B determines, after notice and an
opportunity for a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings if there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, or a show cause hearing before the
Board or panel if there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, that Dr. Rassael has failed to
comply with any term or condition of probation or this Order, the Board or Disciplinary Panel B
may reprimand Dr. Rassael, place Dr. Rassael on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke Dr. Rassael’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The
Board or Disciplinary Panel B may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Rassael; and it is further

ORDERED that after a minimum of three years from the date on which Dr. Rassael’s
probation begins, he may submit a written petition to the Board or designated disciplinary panel
requesting termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be

terminated through an order of the Board or designated Board panel. The Board or designated

Board panel will grant the termination if Dr. Rassael has fully and satisfactorily complied with

5
