Member A and Family Member B.
The Respondent’s Failure to Cooperate with Board Subpoenas

9. By letter dated June 28, 2023 (the “June Letter”), sent to the Respondent’s
address of record (the “Address of Record”),4 the Board, among other things, notified the
Respondent of the Board’s investigation based on the Complaint and issued the Respondent
a subpoena (the “June Subpoena”) for medical records for specific family members and
herself to be delivered within ten business days from the date of the June Subpoena.

10. The Respondent did not comply with the June Subpoena or otherwise
respond to the June Letter and the June Letter was not returned as undeliverable.

11. By email (the “July Email”) dated July 19, 2023, sent to two different email
addresses of record® for the Respondent (the “Email Addresses of Record”), the Board
among other things, notified the Respondent of the Board's investigation based on the
Complaint and included the June Subpoena.

12. The Respondent did not respond to the July Email and the July Email was
not returned as undeliverable.

13. | During the Respondent’s Interview® on August 7, 2023, the Respondent

discussed prescribing to her family members with the Board and stated, among other

“The Board mailed the June Letter to the address the Respondent provided on her application to renew her
license to practice medicine in Maryland that was submitted to the Board on September 30, 2022 (the
“Application”). The Application stated that the Board would use the address provided by the Respondent
for official correspondence. The Board never received a change of address from the Respondent after she
submitted the Application.

> The Board emailed the Respondent at the two email addresses, an official email address and a personal
email address, the Respondent provided on the Application.

® The only notification the Board sent to the Respondent regarding the Respondent’s Interview was a
subpoena ad testificandum mailed to the Respondent’s address of record on or around July 27, 2023.

4

 
