 

John Merren Byrne, D.O.

Date: March i 2014

Damean Freas, D.O. Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
John Byrne, D.O. License Number: H59435

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number H59435, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et
seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that I have been indicted in the Circuit Court for Harford County
for sex abuse of a minor and related charges (Case No. 12-K-17-001029). I admit that the
crimes with which I have been charged in the Circuit Court for Harford County constitute
crimes involving moral turpitude and, upon a conviction or guilty plea, would support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(b) (crime of moral turpitude), I have
decided to voluntarily, knowingly and freely surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further disciplinary action against my license in the event I
am convicted or plead guilty to a crime involving moral turpitude.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may
be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
