Damean Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: John Byrne, D.O.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel B.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession,
including but not limited to a prohibition on treating minors. In the event that
reinstatement is granted, I agree to PERMANENTLY refrain from providing medical
care to minors. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter surrendering my
license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s
actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I
make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on File

John Byrne,D.Q.  ~
V .
