 

NILAY B. THAKER, D.O,

Date: pel ay yOFO

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Nilay B, Thaker, D.O. License Number: H70147
Case Number: 2219-0181A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-403 (2014
Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number H70147, effective immediately. 1
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md, Code Ann., Health Oce. §§ 14-101 et seq.
(2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that ! am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

1 acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging that 1 prescribed
excessive amounts of Adderall to a female patient and provided cash to her in exchange
for videos of her having sex with her boyfriend. The Board initiated an investigation into
the allegations and further determincd that | wrote a prescription in the name of one of my
family members and later provided the medication to the patient. I further acknowledge
that as a result of the Board’s investigation, on March 24, 2020, Panel A issued an Order
for Summary Suspension of my license to practice in Maryland, a copy of which is attached
hereto and incorporated herein as Attachment |.' | have decided to surrender my license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution
of these allegations. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that
these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion
that | violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) (is guilty of immoral conduct in the practice

' Upon Panel A’s acceptance of this Lc te rof Surrende x I understand that the Order for Summary Suspension
issued on March 24, 2020, is terminated as moot.

 
