 

Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE; Nilay 5. Thaker, D.O

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

of medicine); § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine); § 14-404(a)(11) (willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice
of medicine); § 14-404(a)(27) (sells, prescribes, gives away, or administers drugs for illegal
or illegitimate medical purpose); § 1-212 (Sexual misconduct prohibited; regulations;
discipline); and the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations under COMAR 10,32.17.01 e¢
al, (2018),

1 wish to make it clear that 1 have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations, | do not wish to contest these allegations, J understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov,
§§ 4-101 et seq, (2019 Repl. Vol), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled Dangerous
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, 1 understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may
impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public
safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if J ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

lacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever, Finally, 1 wish to make clear that 1 have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have consulted with and was represented by an attorney prior to signing this letter
surrendering my licensc to practice medicine in Maryland. J understand both the nature of

 
