intermittent headache and nausea, which he diagnosed as either stress or
environmental toxins, without considering other possible gastrointestinal,
neurologic or functional possibilities.

In the review of charts submitted, Dr. DiSanto was noted to show several
judgment errors in his management of men with presumed hormonal issues,
most commonly diagnosed as hypogonadism. For example, although he was
able to describe a relatively complete history, examination, and laboratory
investigation, the consultants noted that his actual patient charis often
demonstrated lapses in this protocol, such as failure to consistently check a
DHEA, estradiol, or FSH/LH level. He did not check for secondary
hypogonadism when both testosterone and LH were noted to be low. He did
not alter the dose of testosterone when polycythemia was noted in one chart.
In another chart where the testosterone was abnormally high, he added HCG
instead of decreasing the dose of testosterone. With another patient
complaining of weakness and lethargy who was on alprazolam, bupropion,
and fluoxetine, he did not investigate the role of the underlying illness or
medications in these symptoms or the possibility of suicidal or homicidal
ideation, but started him on testosterone, HCG, and Oxandrolone despite
normal testosterone level five months prior (while off all hormones).

16. CPEP reviewed patient charts from Dr. DiSanto’s actual practice, as well as notes written
by him at CPEP during simulated patient encounters, and found that his actual patient care

documentation was poor and his simulated patient encounter documentation to be

inadequate, stating in part,

+» Dr. DiSanto’s patient care documentation was poor. His documentation
contained the basic elements of a medical record, but the notes were
incomplete, lacked sufficient detail in the Subjective and Objective
components, and failed to provide any justification for the subsequent
assessment and plan. There was little internal consistency between the
various components such as lab results and the objective or assessment notes.
One consultant specifically stated that he could not assume effective care of
any of the patients abased on these medical records.

Overall, Dr. DiSanto’s SP [simulated patient] documentation was inadequate.
He demonstrated that he understood some of the components of acceptable
single-encounter patient documentation, but did not provide adequate
information about the overall medical context in which the SP presented. In
addition, he did not provide sufficient information in the HPI and review of
systems to effectively support a diagnosis or narrow a differential diagnosis.
His assessments were generally appropriate for the information obtained, but
