13

recommendation indicates that it would not be safe for this physician to practice

independently while attempting to remediate the noted deficiencies.

. In addition, CPEP found the licensee’s knowledge and judgment in his focus area of male

hypogonadism (adult hormone deficiency) to be inadequate; that the level of educational
needs in this area would require oversight and supervision; and recommended that
remediation in his focus area of adult hormone deficiency be addressed after remediation

of foundational knowledge in his primary specialty, family medicine.

. In regard to the licensee’s medical knowledge, CPEP found that the licensee demonstrated

“significant educational needs,” stating in part

... although he was able to describe the common symptoms of asthma and
appropriate treatment for a mild case, he was not able to correctly describe
the recommended management of increasingly severe asthma. He was
unaware of the current recommendations for administration of Prevnar and
Pneumovax in adults. In discussing various urology topics, he described
screening for prostate cancer with a digital rectal exam and prostate-specific
antigen (PSA) test, both of which are no longer recommended. He recalled
only one of the medications used for management of prostatic hypertrophy
symptoms. When presented with a young male with flank pain and meaturia,
he correctly identified the possibility of a ureteral stone, but was unable to
describe the various crystalline forms of stones or their specific treatment. In
discussing care of the elderly, he indicated that he would use a tricyclic
antidepresessant (amitriptyline) or trazadone for insomnia, both of which are
relatively contraindicated in this age group. Similarly, he recommended use
of anticholinergic medications to manage urinary incontinence in the elderly,
but was unware of the significant risk of side effects. He described few
measures used to decrease the risk of falls in the elderly.

.. In treating a hypothetical male patient with hypogonadism (symptoms of
fatigue, decreased libido and erectile dysfunction), but a normal testosterone
level, Dr. DiSanto recommended treatment with testosterone with added HCG
and occasionally Oxandrolone, which is not the current standard of care in
allopathic or functional medicine. ... Additionally, when asked about
hormonal replacement in women, he was not able to clearly describe the
diagnostic criteria for female menopause, and incorrectly stated that the
USPSTF guidelines currently recommend estrogen supplementation in the
post-menopausal period for osteoporosis, vaginal dryness, and climacteric
issues, He was not aware of the risk of endometrial/uterine cancer with
