unopposed estrogen therapy, and would not use progesterone
supplementation because of its androgenic side effects, which is contrary to
current recommendations.

15. CPEP found that the licensee demonstrated “inadequate” clinical judgment and reasoning,

stating in part

.he did not demonstrate the ability to gather information in a logical,
organized, and complete fashion; his overall approach to many of the
hypothetical clinical cases appeared to be somewhat superficial and focused
only on the most commonly known symptoms and findings. For example,
when presented with a hypothetical case of a 45-year old female with
increasing fatigue and a history of apparent viral pharyngitis one year prior,
he inquired about the metabolic profile and thyroid level (which were normal)
and immediately diagnosed the problem as chronic fatigue syndrome. He did
not investigate other causes such as occult infection, lifestyle issues, chronic
anxiety, depression, drug or alcohol abuse or possible toxins. All consultants
that reviewed his charts noted a lack of adequate information in the history,
physical examination and laboratory investigation of many patients.

Dr. DiSanto demonstrated some difficulty recognizing acuity of illness, and
suggested less-than-appropriate plans, often ignoring known clinical evidence
of best practices. For example, in the hypothetical case of a 60-year old male
with polydipsia, polyuria, weight loss, and a blood glucose of 300, he initially
recommended lifestyle changes and a diet, without investigating other
possible comorbidities. When pressed, he suggested that he might add
Lisinopril and metformin, without recognizing that most probably a more
aggressive anti-glycemic regimen would be necessary. He rarely proposed a
differential diagnosis for a patient’s complex symptoms, such as in a
hypothetical young male starting a job in a new building and complaining of
intermittent headache and nausea, which he diagnosed as either stress or
environmental toxins, without considering other possible gastrointestinal,
neurologic or functional possibilities.

In the review of charts submitted, Dr. DiSanto was noted to show several
judgment errors in his management of men with presumed hormonal issues,
most commonly diagnosed as hypogonadism. For example, although he was
able to describe a relatively complete history, examination, and laboratory
investigation, the consultants noted that his actual patient charts often
demonstrated lapses in this protocol, such as failure to consistently check a
DHEA, estradiol, or FSH/LH level. He did not check for secondary
hypogonadism when both testosterone and LH were noted to be low. He did
not alter the dose of testosterone when polycythemia was noted in one chart.
In another chart where the testosterone was abnormally high, he added HCG
