11. In or around November 2018, under agreement with the Board, the licensee submitted to a
clinical skills assessment at Center for Personalized Education for Professionals (“CPEP”)
in the specialty of family medicine, with a focus on adult hormone deficiency.

12. CPEP found that the licensee’s overall knowledge and judgment in the broad scope of
general family medicine was outdated and in need of updating and review and opined that
these needs would best be addressed through remediation in a formal educational setting
such as residency, fellowship or residency-like setting. According to CPEP, this level of
recommendation indicates that it would not be safe for this physician to practice
independently while attempting to remediate the noted deficiencies.

13. In addition, CPEP found the licensee’s knowledge and judgment in his focus area of male
hypogonadism (adult hormone deficiency) to be inadequate; that the level of educational
needs in this area would require oversight and supervision; and recommended that
remediation in his focus area of adult hormone deficiency be addressed after remediation
of foundational knowledge in his primary specialty, family medicine.

14, In regard to the licensee’s medical knowledge, CPEP found that the licensee demonstrated

“significant educational needs,” stating in part

.». although he was able to describe the common symptoms of asthma and
appropriate treatment for a mild case, he was not able to correctly describe
the recommended management of increasingly severe asthma. He was
unaware of the current recommendations for administration of Prevnar and
Pneumovax in adults. In discussing various urology topics, he described
screening for prostate cancer with a digital rectal exam and prostate-specific
antigen (PSA) test, both of which are no longer recommended. He recalled
only one of the medications used for management of prostatic hypertrophy
symptoms. When presented with a young male with flank pain and meaturia,
he correctly identified the possibility of a ureteral stone, but was unable to
describe the various crystalline forms of stones or their specific treatment, In
discussing care of the elderly, he indicated that he would use a tricyclic
antidepresessant (amitriptyline) or trazadone for insomnia, both of which are
relatively contraindicated in this age group. Similarly, he recommended use
