of anticholinergic medications to manage urinary incontinence in the elderly,
but was unware of the significant risk of side effects. He described few
measures used to decrease the risk of falls in the elderly.

... In treating a hypothetical male patient with hypogonadism (symptoms of
fatigue, decreased libido and erectile dysfunction), but a normal testosterone
level, Dr. DiSanto recommended treatment with testosterone with added HCG
and occasionally Oxandrolone, which is not the current standard of care in
allopathic or functional medicine. ... Additionally, when asked about
hormonal replacement in women, he was not able to clearly describe the
diagnostic criteria for female menopause, and incorrectly stated that the
USPSTF guidelines currently recommend estrogen supplementation in the
post-menopausal period for osteoporosis, vaginal dryness, and climacteric
issues. He was not aware of the risk of endometrial/uterine cancer with
unopposed estrogen therapy, and would not use progesterone

supplementation because of its androgenic side effects, which is contrary to
current recommendations.

15. CPEP found that the licensee demonstrated “inadequate” clinical judgment and reasoning,

Stating in part

.he did not demonstrate the ability to gather information in a logical,
organized, and complete fashion; his overall approach to many of the
hypothetical clinical cases appeared to be somewhat superficial and focused
only on the most commonly known symptoms and findings. For example,
when presented with a hypothetical case of a 45-year old female with
increasing fatigue and a history of apparent viral pharyngitis one year prior,
he inquired about the metabolic profile and thyroid level (which were normal)
and immediately diagnosed the problem as chronic fatigue syndrome. He did
not investigate other causes such as occult infection, lifestyle issues, chronic
anxiety, depression, drug or alcohol abuse or possible toxins. All consultants
that reviewed his charts noted a lack of adequate information in the history,
physical examination and laboratory investigation of many patients.

Dr. DiSanto demonstrated some difficulty recognizing acuity of illness, and
suggested less-than-appropriate plans, often ignoring known clinical evidence
of best practices. For example, in the hypothetical case of a 60-year old male
with polydipsia, polyuria, weight loss, and a blood glucose of 300, he initially
recommended lifestyle changes and a diet, without investigating other
possible comorbidities. When pressed, he suggested that he might add
Lisinopril and metformin, without recognizing that most probably a more
aggressive anti-glycemic regimen would be necessary. He rarely proposed a
differential diagnosis for a patient’s complex symptoms, such as in a
hypothetical young male starting a job in a new building and complaining of
