Jessica Greco, D.O.

Date: O77 i 2/20 Zee

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Jessica Greco, D.O.
License Number: H77209
Case Number: 7722-0063

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number H77209, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice medicine, with or
without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 e¢ seg. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation based on allegations that I
provided medical services through a telemedicine appointment while under the influence
of alcohol or while using a narcotic or CDS and prescribed to a family member on
numerous occasions. Additionally, I also acknowledge that the Board also received an
allegation from a reporting entity that I was being treated for a narcotic or CDS and abuse
condition that was likely to impact my ability to practice safely and competently. On
September 21, 2021, the Panel summarily suspended my license based on the
aforementioned allegations and subsequent investigation. On September 30, 2021, the
Panel issued charges alleging that I was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine; professionally, physically or mentally incompetent; habitually intoxicated;
addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
define in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article; provides professinal services while under

|
|
|

 

 
