(8) _ Is addicted to, or habitually abuses, any narcotic or controlled
dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article;

(9) Provides professional services:
(i) While under the influence of alcohol; or

(ii) While using any narcotic or controlled dangerous
substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article, or other drug that is in excess of therapeutic
amounts or without valid medical indication[.]

One form of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine is providing
treatment to family members. The American Medical Association has addressed this in a
series of ethics opinions:!

Opinion 8.19 (2012) — Self-Treatment or Treatment of Immediate Family
Members

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their
immediate families, Professional objectivity may be compromised when an
immediate family member or the physician is the patient; the physician’s
personal feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical
judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered. Physicians may
fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medial history or may fail to
perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Similarly, patients may
feel uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an
intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family member.
This discomfort is particularly the case when the patient is a minor child, and
sensitive or intimate care should especially be avoided for such patients,
When treating themselves or immediate family members, physicians may be
inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training. If
tensions develop in a physician’s professional relationship with a family
member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such difficulties
may be carried over into the family member’s personal relationship with the
physician.

 

' The Board and the disciplinary panels may consider the Principles of Ethics of the American Medical
Association, but those principles are not binding on the Board or the disciplinary panels. See COMAR
10.32.02.16.
