Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant
when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family
members may be reluctant to state their preference for another physician or
decline a recommendation for fear of offending the physician. In particular,
minor children will generally not feel free to refuse care from their parents.
Likewise, physicians may feel obligated to provide care to immediate family
members even if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake self-treatment or treatment
of immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings
where there is no other qualified physician available, physicians should not
hesitate to treat themselves or family members until another physician
becomes available. In addition, while physicians should not serve as a
primary or regular care provider for immediate family members, there are
situations in which routine care is acceptable for short-term, minor problems.
Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write
prescriptions for controlled substances for themselves or immediate family
members.

Opinion 1.2.1 (2016) - Treating Self or Family

When the patient is an immediate family member, the physician’s personal
feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment. Or
the physician may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical
history or to perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Physicians
may feel obligated to provide care for family members despite feeling
uncomfortable doing so. They may also be inclined to treat problems that are
beyond their expertise or training.

Similarly, patients may feel uncomfortable receiving care from a family
member. A patient may be reluctant to disclose sensitive information or
undergo an intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family
member. This discomfort may particularly be the case when the patient is a
minor child, who may not feel free to refuse care from a parent.

In general, physicians should not treat themselves or members of their own
families. However, it may be acceptable to do so in limited circumstances:

(a) In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no
other qualified physician available. In such situations,
physicians should not hesitate to treat themselves or family
members until another physician becomes available.
