Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Jessica Greco, D.O. :

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

I affirm that I have already provided access to and copies of patient medical
records to my patients in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.
I also agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office
of Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I
understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation
of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully, I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Jessica Greco, D.O.

Signature On File

NOTARY
STATE OF CL a
CITY/COUNTY OF ( : & | ( te V
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this ic \day of © y \ | ( A , 2022 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Jessica Greco, D.O., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of
Surrender was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal,

 
 
     
     

  

PAULA J LAWRENCE F
Notary Public - State of Florida &
Commission # HH 225742

jorded through National Notary Assn, §
