Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Jessica Greco, D.O.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

the influence of alcohol; and provides professional sevices while using any narcotic or
controlled dangerous substance, as define in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or
other durg that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medial indication, in
violation of Health Occ. §§ 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (4), (7), (8), (DG, and (9)fii). As a
resolution to the charges, I entered into a Consent Order with Panel A on February 2,
2022 that concluded, as a matter of law, that I violated the disciplinary grounds alleged,
Health Occ. §§ 14-404(a)(3)(ii), (4), (7), (8), (9)@), and (9)Gi). The Consent Order
terminated the summary suspension of my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, suspended my medical license in the State of Maryland for a minimum period
of one year, required that J enroll in and comply with the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”), and required that I take and successfully complete a
course in medical ethics. A copy of the Order for Summary Suspension of License to
Practice Medicine and Consent Order are attached and incorporated herein as
Attachments | and 2.

I acknowledge that on June 1, 2022, the MPRP closed my case for cause based on
my failure to comply and cooperate with their referrals, rules and requirements.

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because of my illness, lack of support, and to avoid prosecution for failing to
comply with the conditions of the Consent Order. I acknowledge that the Consent Order
will remain and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon
acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the conditions
of the Consent Order as long as I do not have or possess an active medical license in
Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender | am
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that
in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a
final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

 

 
