Virgil W. McMillion, DO

Date: Tae. L Zz 027.

Mark Olszyk, MD, Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: ”, Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Virgil W. MeMillion, DO License Number: H91843
Case Number: 2222-0103

Dear Dr, Olszyk and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md..Code Ann., Health ‘Occ. (“Health Occ,”
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number H91843, effective
immediately. 1 understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef
seq, and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that T am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”). .

I acknowledge that the Board received notice from the Interstate Medical
Licensure Compact (“IMLC”) that my Wyoming medical license was - summarily
suspended and that the Board initiated an investigation into the allegations. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution. J recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations
support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14~404(a)(1), (3)(ii), (24) and (36),
based upon the West Virginia Boatd of Osteopathic Medicine’s finding that I was
ineligible for the Letter of Qualification based upon my failure to report a pending
criminal investigation.

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the

 
