 

Karl Stoffel

Date: be Loeb

Disciplinary Panel A
Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

RE: Surrender of Respiratory Care License
License Number: L0C382
MBP Case Number: 2016-0053A

Dear Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

| have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice as a respiratory care
practitioner in the State of Maryland, License Number L00382, effective immediately. |
understand that the surrender of my license means that | may not evaluate, care for,
and treat, including the diagnostic evaluation of, individuals who have deficiencies and
abnormalities that affect the pulmonary system and associated aspects of the
cardiopulmonary and other systems under the supervision and in collaboration with a
physician or otherwise engage in the practice of respiratory care in the State of
Maryland, as it is defined in the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act’),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ. Il”) §§ 14-5A-01 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.)
and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that | am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on
Disciplinary Panel A's (Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the "Board").

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
March 9, 2016, Disciplinary Panel A voted to issued disciplinary charges against me
under Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-17(a)(3) (unprofessional conduct in the practice of
respiratory care), (10) (willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
respiratory care), (14) (knowingly makes a misrepresentation while practicing
respiratory care) and (18) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
respiratory care) of the Act. Specifically, it is alleged that violated the Act when |
charted full ventilation checks on several patients without first evaluating those patients.
The complaint further alleged that my supervisor observed my work flow on two
consecutive days, and during that time, observed me documenting full ventilation
checks on the patients without ever entering the patients' rooms. | recognize that for all
purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
