Karl Stoffel
Letter of Surrender
Page 2 of 4

and | acknowledge that these allegations support a conclusion that | violated the above
provisions of the Act.

| have decided to surrender my license to practice as a respiratory care
practitioner in Maryland to avoid disciplinary action as a result of the allegations against
me. In addition, | have decided that | no longer wish to practice as a respiratory care
practitioner.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further disciplinary action. | understand that by
executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which | would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Letter of Surrender, and in any response to any inquiry, that | have
surrendered my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in the event | would
apply for a license in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender is considered a disciplinary
action by Panel A.

| affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, | will present to the Board
my original Maryland respiratory care practitioner license number L00382 and my most
recent wallet-sized renewal card.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until Panel A or its successor
grants reinstatement. In the event that if | apply for reinstatement of my Maryland
respiratory care practitioner license, | understand that Panel A or its successor is not
required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose
additional terms and conditions. | further understand that if | ever file a petition for
reinstatement, | will approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an
individual whose license has been revoked. | also understand that if | apply for
reinstatement, | bear the burden of demonstrating my professional competence and
fitness to practice respiratory care to the satisfaction of Panel A or its successor.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. | have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be
