Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Fred Avila, R.C.P.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

by executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender. | also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 er seq. (2014 Repl.

Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
| apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel B or its successor
is not required to grant reinstatement: and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any
terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. | further understand that if I
ever file a petition for reinstatement, | will approach Panel B or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an attorney before
signing this letter surrendering my license to practice respiratory care in Maryland. |
understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. 1
acknowledge that | understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,
Signature on File

} 0 ow _, RCP.

Date
