 

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
Fred Avila, R.C.P. License Number: L00675
Case Number: 2221-0142

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-SA-16 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), | have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L00675, effective
immediately. ] understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of respiratory care in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, |
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice, based on
allegations that I intentionally capped the orifice of a patient’s tracheostomy, without a LIP
order and left the patient unattended. | have decided to surrender my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of
these allegations and due to my current retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant
to respiratory care practitioner that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that
these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(3)', (5Y,
(18), and (27)4,

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that

'[s guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care

2 Abandons a patient

3 Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of respiratory care performed in any inpatient or
outpatient facility, office, hospital, or related institution

‘ Fails to practice under the supervision of a physician or violates a supervisory order of a supervising
physician
