Anne M. Harter, RCP

May 24, 2017

Arun Bhandari, Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of Respiratory Care Practitioner License
Anne M. Harter, RCP
License Number: L00757
Case Number: 2017-0272

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice respiratory
care in the State of Maryland, License Number L00757, effective immediately. I understand that
upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or
without compensation, and cannot engage in the practice of respiratory care in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint from my former employer notifying the
Board that I was terminated from my employment for creating fraudulent continuing education
certificates for a co-worker and that the Board initiated an investigation into the allegations. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current health condition. I
recognize that for all purposes relevant to licensure that these allegations shall be treated as proven
and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-5A-17 (a)(3) (Is
guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care), (10) (Willfully
makes or files a false report or record in the practice of respiratory care), and (26) (Fails to
cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of
