Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Anne M. Harter, RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit
court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the National
Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this Letter of
Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license as if it were revoked.
I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same
extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen.
Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel A.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board my original
Maryland respiratory care practitioner license, number L00757, any renewal wallet cards, and wall
certificates.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license will
remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply for
reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor is not required to
grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the
disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and
reputation of the profession. I further understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been
revoked. I also understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my
professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel A or its
successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for any
reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the right
to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully
waived my right to be represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license
to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter
of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and
terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

AW fi-

Anne M. Harter, RCP
