Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Sheila V. Williams, RCP

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure, the charges will
be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. 1 also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order
that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-
101 et seg. (2019 Repl. Vol), and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice respiratory care in
the State of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be
represented by an attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice
respiratory care in Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that { understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very taily yours,

Signature on File

cl
