intelligently made, and I find those facts sufficient to find the Defendant
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt to a violation of Criminal Article 3-
308(b)(1), a fourth degree sexual offense.

5. On or about May 19, 2017, Mr. Opoku appeared for sentencing in the Circuit
Court for Frederick County, Maryland. Mr. Opoku was sentenced to the
following: incarceration for 180 days, which was suspended in its entirety;
supervised probation for two years, subject to the following probationary
conditions: registering as a Tier 1 Sex Offender; submitting to a psycho-sexual
evaluation; undergoing and successfully completing any recommended treatment;
obeying all laws; paying court costs; no contact with the victim; and obtaining
permission prior to leaving the State.

6. Mr. Opoku did not appeal his conviction within the time prescribed by law and
the guilty plea and conviction have not been set aside.

DISCUSSION

Mr. Opoku does not dispute that he pled guilty and was convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude, and he has not filed a response to the petition to revoke his license or the order
to show cause.

“The term ‘moral turpitude’ has been defined generally as importing ‘an act of baseness,
vileness or depravity in the private and social duties which a man owes to his fellow men, or to
society in general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right and duty between man
and man.’” Afforney Grievance Comm’n of M. v. Walman, 280 Md. 453, 459 (1977) (quoting
Braverman y. Bar Ass’n of Balt. City, 209 Md. 328, 344, cert. denied, 352 U.S. 830 (1956))).
“(I]t is settled that whatever else [moral turpitude] may mean . . . a crime in which an intent to
defraud is an essential element is a crime involving moral turpitude. It is also settled that the
related group of offenses involving intentional dishonesty for purposes of personal gain are
crimes involving moral turpitude[.]” Jd. at 459-60. When a conviction does not, on its face,
establish moral turpitude, the determination of moral turpitude “hinges on the facts present in the

individual case at hand.” Jd. at 462. It is well established that “in the context of a licensing
