to a crime involving moral turpitude, whether or not any appeal or other
proceeding is pending to have the conviction or plea set aside.

(2) After completion of the appellate process if the conviction has not been
reversed or the plea has not been set aside with respect to a crime involving
moral turpitude, a disciplinary panel shall order the revocation of a license on
the certification by the Office of the Attorney General.

Attached to the Petition were certified copies of the docket entries, the statement of charges, case
history, transcript of the guilty plea and sentencing hearings, verdict/sentencing forms, and show
cause order mandating that Mr. Opoku show cause in writing by October 17, 2017 if there were
any reasons why his license to practice respiratory care should not be revoked. To date, the
Board has not received a response from Mr. Opoku.

Having reviewed and considered the entire record in this case, Panel A issues this Final
Decision and Order.

FINDINGS OF FACT.
Panel A finds the following facts by a preponderance of the evidence:

1, Mr. Opoku was originally licensed to practice respiratory care in the State of
Maryland on December 20, 1994, under License Number L02034, and at all times
relevant to the charges in this case, held a license to practice respiratory care in
the State of Maryland.

2. On or about November 16, 2016, Mr. Opoku was charged in the District Court of
Maryland for Frederick County with one (1) count of Sex Offense in the Fourth
Degree, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Crim. Law § 3-308(b)(1); and one (1)
count of Assault in the Second Degree, in violation of Md. Code Ann., Crim. Law
§ 3-203. The charges alleged that on or about November 13, 2016, Mr. Opoku
sexually assaulted a female co-worker (“Health Care Worker A”) at a health care
facility (“Health Care Facility A”) while he was on duty there as a respiratory care
therapist. Mr. Opoku prayed a jury trial on these charges and the case was
transferred to the Circuit Court for Frederick County, Maryland.

3. On or about May 5, 2017, Mr. Opoku appeared in the Circuit Court for Frederick
County, Maryland, and pleaded guilty to one (1) count of Sex Offense in the
Fourth Degree, under Case Number 10K17059694. Pursuant to a plea bargain, the
State entered a nolle prosequi to the charge of Assault in the Second Degree.

4. At the guilty plea hearing, the following colloquy transpired:
