Eugene Kermisch, RCP

Date: | aac 20, 20\1

Damean Freas, Chair

Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
Eugene Kermisch, RCP License Number: L04784
Case Number: 2019-1009

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2017 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L04784, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of respiratory care in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01 et seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board opened up an investigation regarding my failure to
disclose previous criminal history on my initial application for licensure and five
subsequent renewal applications. I have decided to surrender my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of
these allegations. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I
violated Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(10) (willfully fails to file or record any report as
required under law, willfully impedes or obstructs the filing or recording of a report, or
induces another to fail to file or record a report).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
