Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

RE: Devin W. O’Neill, R.C.P.; License Number L05223
Letter of Surrender

Page 2

Pursuant to the Consent Order, Panel A reprimanded me and directed me
to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and “fully
and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP's referrals, rules, and
requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP.” A copy
of the Consent Order is attached hereto as Attachment One.

On or about September 21, 2017, | enrolled in the MPRP and pursuant
thereto, executed a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement where | agreed, inter alia,
not to use illicit substances, consume controlled substances or mood-altering
substances, obtained through prescription or otherwise, unless prescribed in an
appropriate manner for a legitimate medical purpose; and to undergo random
toxicology screens.

MPRP reported to the Board that on multiple occasions in October 2017, |
underwent random toxicology screens and had positive test findings, in violation
of my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. MPRP also reported that | failed to
undergo random toxicology screening on one occasion and also admitted to
engaging in acts that violated this Participant Rehabilitation Agreement.

On October 26, 2017, MPRP notified the Board that based on the above
findings, it discharged me for cause.

After receiving this information, Panel A, in an Order for Summary
Suspension of License to Practice Respiratory Care (the “Order’), dated November
6, 2017, summarily suspended my license to practice respiratory care. A copy of
the Order is attached hereto as Attachment Two.

In addition, the Board determined that | violated the terms and conditions of
the Consent Order in that on multiple occasions in October 2017, | underwent
random toxicology screens and had positive test findings, in violation of my
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement, failed to undergo random toxicology
screening on one occasion and also admitted to engaging in acts that violated his
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement.

| have decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these
allegations. | recognize that for all purposes relevant to respiratory care licensure
