Arun Bhandari, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A

RE: Devin W. O’Neill, R.C.P.; License Number L05223
Letter of Surrender

Page 3

that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support
a conclusion that | violated the terms and conditions of the Consent Order, as noted
above.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen
to submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. | do not wish to contest these allegations. |
understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to
contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a
formal evidentiary hearing at which | would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right
to appeal to circuit court.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical
Boards, the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and
Protection Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry,
that | have surrendered my license as if it were revoked. | also understand that in
the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction
that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seg. (2014), and that this Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I-will present to the
Board my original Maryland respiratory care practitioner license, number L05223,
any renewal wallet cards and wall certificate. | also affirm that | will provide access
to and copies of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of
the Health General article.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered for a minimum period of one (1) year, and unless
and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that | apply for reinstatement
of my Maryland License, | understand that Panel A or its successor has sole
discretion to accept or deny my petition or deny my petition for reinstatement; and,
if it does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the
disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the
integrity and reputation of the profession. | further understand that if | ever file a
petition for reinstatement, | will approach Panel A or its successor in the same
position as an individual whose license has been revoked. | also understand that
