Devin W. O’Neill, R.C.P.
Date: |Z IS /Z017
Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
R.C.P. License Number: L05223
Case Number: 7718-0027A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that | have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L05223,
effective immediately, for a minimum period of one (1) year. | understand that
upon surrender of my license, | may not practice respiratory care in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II §§ 14-5A-01 ef seq. (2014 Repl. Vol. and
2016 Supp.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of
this Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that
| am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and
upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

| acknowledge that in 2017, the Board initiated an investigation of my
licensure after a Maryland health care facility reported that it had terminated my
employment for actions that would constitute violations of the Act. Panel A
subsequently voted to charge me with violating the Act.

Prior to the issuance of disciplinary charges, | entered into a Consent Order
with Panel A, dated September 1, 2017 (the “Consent Order’), in which Panel A
found as a matter of law that | violated the following provisions of the Act under
Health Occ. Il § 14-5A-17(a): (3) Is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of respiratory care; (18) Fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
respiratory care performed in any inpatient or outpatient facility, office, hospital or
related institution, domiciliary care facility, patient's home, or any other location in
this State; and (27) Violates a supervisory order of a supervising physician.
