Torrey Bloomfield, RCP

Date: iz] | 1 [201]

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: L05422
Case Number: 7717-0055

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L05422, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not, with or without
compensation, practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Respiratory Care Act (the “Act’””), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01(h)
(2014 Repl. Vol.). In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”’).

I acknowledge that the Board received information from the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program that I had failed to comply with my participant
rehabilitation plan and, therefore, was discharged for cause, in violation of the Consent
Order dated December 20, 2016 (attached as Exhibit A). I have decided to surrender my
license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation
and prosecution of these allegations. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to my
respiratory care license that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these
allegations support a conclusion that I violated the Consent Order dated December 20,
2016.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
