 

tube exchange the patient was taken to the OR were interventional

radiology performed a bronchoscopy that showed a large Scm defect
in the right posterior trachea.

7. Supervisor 1 concluded that the incident “demonstrates a serious lack of
responsibility” and violated multiple Hospital policies. Supervisor 1 also stated that the
“decision to construct an unapproved medical device and utilize it in the care of [a] patient
is outside the scope of [a] Respiratory Therapist.”

8. On or about October 22, 2018, the Board notified the Respondent by letter
about the Hospital’s Mandated 10-Day Report and requested a written response from him.

9. On or about November 4, 2018, the Respondent provided the Board with his
written response. The Respondent acknowledged applying an “unapproved device to a
patient” in an “emergent situation,” but insisted, among other things, that he “immediately
informed the primary physician and physician assistant” as well as the responding
anesthesiologist (the “Anesthesiologist”) about the device. The Respondent insisted that
the device was initially applied for about 40 minutes, and no other practitioners told him
during that time that they “were uncomfortable with [his] actions or disapproved[.]” The
Respondent also stated that the cause of the Patient’s trachea damage was “never
conclusively determined.”

10. On or about March 29, 2019, Board staff interviewed Supervisor | under
oath. Supervisor | confirmed and reiterated the description of the device the Respondent

made and used that Supervisor 1 provided in the August 2, 2018 Corrective Action Form

‘ Previously, in a Performance Review completed September 2, 2016, under a section titled
“Communication,” another supervisor wrote that the Respondent “does not always stick to the constructed
plan that was agreed upon during rounds. Moreover, this deviation from the plan is not consistently relayed
to the ICU team... A physician had expressed her concerns about [the Respondent] not communicating
and doing his own thing.”
