 

YJ. Board Investigation

4, The Board initiated an investigation into the Respondent's conduct based on

the statements in the Mandated 10-Day Report.

5. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained the Respondent’s personnel
file from the Hospital. The Respondent’s personnel file showed that he worked at the
Hospital as a respiratory therapist beginning on or about July 28, 2014, and was terminated

from his employment there on or about August 2, 2018.3
6. The Respondent’s personnel file included a “Corrective Action Form” dated
August 2, 2018, that addressed the termination of his employment. A supervisor from the

Hospital’s Respiratory Care Department (“Supervisor 1”) completed the Corrective Action
Form. Supervisor 1 described the events leading to the Respondent's termination as

follows:

On the morning of July 18, 2018, at 11:00. . . the [Respondent] was
called to room 9 . . . because of an endotracheal tube (ETT) cuff leak.
On arrival the therapist noted an audible cuff leak, and proceeded to
deflate the cuff and add 40ml of air into the cuff. The cuff pressure
was checked and found to be zero mmHG. He then placed additional
air into the pilot balloon and capped the end to see if the pilot balloon
was leaking. When it was determined that a leak was still present, he
constructed a device using a 10ml syringe, suction adapter, and
oxygen connecting tubing. He then connected the device to the pilot
balloon and introduced a constant | liter per minute flow of oxygen
into the cuff. Anesthesia responding reports that they were not
initially aware the device was being used. The patient had four ETT
tube changes and the device was used on the initial and then two
subsequent tubes. These three tubes had significantly ruptured cuffs
when removed. Significant subcutaneous air was present and on X-
ray a massive right sided pneumothorax was noted. After the fourth

? As stated in Paragraph 2, supra, the Mandated 10-Day Report states, and the Respondent
maintains, that he was given the opportunity to resign in lieu of termination. Any such resignation letter is
not in the Respondent’s personnel file that the Hospital provided to the Board.

4
