ORDERED that Ms. Beck’s license to practice respiratory care in Maryland (License
Number L06144) is SUSPENDED)’; and it is further

ORDERED that within 10 business days, Ms. Beck shall enroll with the MPRP and shall
comply with all terms and conditions of the December 1, 2015 agreement; and it is further

ORDERED that Ms. Beck may submit a written petition to the Board or Panel A
requesting termination of her suspension once she successfully complies with the terms of the
December 1, 2015 agreement. After consideration of the petition, the suspension may be
terminated through an order of the Board or Panel A. Ms. Beck may be required to appear
before the Board or Panel A to discuss her petition for termination. The Board or Panel A will
grant the petition to terminate the suspension if Ms. Beck has successfully complied with the
December 1, 2015 agreement and there are no pending complaints related to the charges; and it
is further

ORDERED that upon termination of Ms. Beck’s suspension, the Board or Panel A may
impose a period of probation with terms and conditions to be determined by the Board or Panel
A; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Board or Panel A determines, after notice and an opportunity for a
hearing before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings if there is
a genuine dispute as to a material fact or a show cause hearing before the Board or Panel A if
there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, that Ms. Beck has failed to comply with this
Order, the Board or Panel A may reprimand Ms. Beck, place Ms. Beck on probation with

i itions, . icense to practice medicine in
appropriate terms and conditions, suspend or revoke Ms. Beck’s license t t d

' Ms. Beck’s license expires on May 30, 2016. If Ms. Beck fails to renew her license before it expires, the
suspension will not be terminated and the time period of suspension will be tolled until her license is reinstated.
COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a). If Ms. Beck’s license expires while her license is suspended, Ms. Beck may not
petition Panel A for termination of suspension until she applies for and meets the requirements for reinstatement set
out in COMAR 10.32.11.11, the reinstatement regulations for RCPs. See COMAR 10.32.02.06A (4).
