i. The Anesthesiologist, among others, submitted an article for publication in
which he and the other authors discussed the Patient’s case as well as the
results of the Respondent’s creating and applying an unapproved medical
device to the Patient’s ETT.

13. Onor about July 9, 2019, Board staff interviewed the Respondent under oath.
The Respondent said that when he evaluated the Patient’s ETT on or about July 18, 2018,
he determined there was a cuff leak and he attempted to infuse air into the cuff through the
pilot balloon. He felt no resistance in the balloon and the cuff pressure “registered zero.”
The Respondent said he was also being called to another room and, as a result, was back-
and-forth between the other room and the Patient’s room. While waiting for the anesthesia
team to arrive, he “improvised a line from the [oxygen] source and put about a half a liter
flow into the [Patient’s ETT] pilot balloon.” He checked on the Patient for the next 15-20
minutes and “everything seemed fine.” The Respondent asserted that he told the anesthesia
team about his device as soon as they arrived. The anesthesia team replaced the Patient’s
ETT, but they could not get any pressure on the ETT cuff, so, according to the Respondent,

he asked the Anesthesiologist if it was “okay to hook back up” the device he had made.

He was unsure if anyone assented to his reconnecting the device, but he did so anyway.

>On or about September 15, 2019, the article was published in a peer-reviewed journal. The article
included a description of the case that was consistent with what the Anesthesiologist described during his
interview with the Board. The article also noted that the Patient had a stable oxygen saturation and adequate
expiratory tidal volumes with the first ETT, even with the cuff leak and prior to placement of the
Respondent’s device. The article explained the authors’ concer about “‘a large iatrogenic tracheal injury”
once they observed an intact ETT cuff explode within 50 seconds when connected to the Respondent’s
device. The article also observed that “without a pressure-release mechanism or a 3-way connection to
monitor cuff pressure, an intact ETT cuff insufflated at | {liter per minute] will expand quickly, dilate the
trachea, and then explode, causing a blast injury strong enough to rupture the trachea.” The article’s authors
ultimately concluded that “ETT exchange was the safest and most appropriate option considering the
patient’s sufficient [tidal volumes] and stable vital signs initially.”

8
