discuss what the Respondent had done, nor did the Respondent indicate. that
he used a specific device.

. The Anesthesiologist heard a cuff leak and began the process to replace the
first ETT. After removing the first ETT and placing the second ETT, he
noticed that the first ETT cuff was “ripped into threads,” which he said was
“extremely unusual.”

. While the Anesthesiologist was evaluating the damage to the first ETT on
the side of the bed, he heard “a pop” in the room.

. After determining the second ETT was also leaking, the Anesthesiologist
replaced the second ETT with a third ETT. The second ETT cuff was also
torn in a similar way to the first ETT cuff.

. The Anesthesiologist replaced the third ETT with a fourth ETT after again
noticing a cuff leak. Around that time, he and his team noticed “some kind
of makeshift assembly device next to the bed,” which the Respondent had
constructed. They had not seen the device before because it “was cither
behind [the anesthesia team] or it was on the ventilator, but it was not in the
normal view of [the Anesthesiologist].”

When the Anesthesiologist removed the third ETT, he saw that the cuff was
intact. He and his team “replicated what [the Respondent] did on the first
two [ETTs] ... on the third [ETT], and we watched in front of our eyes how
the cuff... expanded in size and then ruptured.” The Respondent looked
“shocked and horrified” at the result of his device being applied to the ETT.

. The Anesthesiologist believed that the Respondent’s device provided too
much flow into the Patient’s ETT cuff “and ended up blowing up the balloon
... inside [the Patient].” He called for a team of trauma surgeons to evaluate
the Patient. While using a camera to assist in the insertion of another ETT,
the surgeons and the Anesthesiologist noted a 10cm injury to the trachea
“from right below the vocal cords all the way down to where it splits to the
carina.” The Anesthesiologist further stated that there was “‘no other reason
why [the Patient] would have incurred [the tracheal injury] if not for the
connection of [the Respondent’s] device to that ETT cuff.”

. The Anesthesiologist had never seen a device such as the one the Respondent
made used on any patient in his over 14 years of medical practice.
