Agreement and fulfill all conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. The
Agreement also provided that

[I]f the Respondent fails to comply with any term or condition of this Agreement,

a Board panel, after notice and an opportunity to be heard may take an action

prescribed under Section 14-5A-17(a) of the Maryland Medical Practice Act,

which includes reprimand, probation, or the suspension or revocation of the

Respondent’s respiratory care practitioner’s license.

Ms. Beck failed to enroll in the MPRP and, on May 18, 2016, after a show cause hearing,
Panel A suspended her license to practice respiratory care.
May 18, 2016 Order

On May 11, 2016, Ms. Beck appeared at a show cause hearing before Panel A and
conceded that she violated the December 1, 2015 agreement by failing to enroll in the MPRP.
On May 18, 2016, Panel A issued an order finding that Ms. Beck failed to comply with the terms
of the December 1, 2015 agreement and ordered that her license be suspended until she had
complied with the agreement. The Order required Ms. Beck to enroll in the MPRP program
within ten (10) business days and to “comply with all terms and conditions of the December 1,
2015 agreement [.]” The May 18, 2016 Order also:

ORDERED that if the Board or Panel A determines after notice and an

opportunity for a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of

Administrative Hearings if there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact or a

show cause hearing before the Board or Panel A if there is no genuine dispute as

to a material fact, that Ms. Beck has failed to comply with this Order, the Board

or Panel A may reprimand Ms. Beck, place Ms. Beck on probation with

appropriate terms and conditions, impose a civil monetary fine, or suspend or

revoke Ms. Beck’s license to practice medicine in Maryland[.]
Violation of May 18, 2016 Order

In accordance with the May 18, 2016 Order, Ms. Beck enrolled in the MPRP and entered

into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement on June 1, 2016. Under the terms of Ms. Beck’s

Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and the addendum agreements, Ms. Beck was required to
