Date: -| 2-2

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4th Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
James Scott Chancey, R.C.P.
License Number: L06190
Case Number: 2219-0103A

Dear Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) § 14-403
(2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L06190, effective immediately.
I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not engage in the practice of respiratory care
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Respiratory Care Practitioners
Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of
the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means
that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on February 10,
2020, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-5A-17(a)(3) (is guilty
of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of respiratory care), (a)(18) (fails to meet
appropriate standards for delivery of respiratory care), and (a)(23) (practices or attempts to practice
beyond the authorized scope of practice). Specifically, Panel A alleged that I created and applied
an unapproved device to a patient’s endotracheal tube to stop an audible cuff leak, but the device
likely resulted in harm to the patient. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid
further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I acknowledge that
for all purposes related to licensure, the charges will be treated as if proven.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to a hearing
to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the charges, I am also waiving
