Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Thomas F. Fahey, Jr., RCP

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I acknowledge that I again violated my PRA and PRP and the September 8, 2023
Order After Show Cause Hearing and that MPRP discharged me for cause on January 23,
2024,

I have decided to surrender my license to practice respiratory care in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the
September 8, 2023 Order After Show Cause Hearing and to avoid prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the Order. I acknowledge that the September
8, 2023 Order After Show Cause Hearing will remain and will continue to be a valid Final
Order of the Board; however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be
required to comply with the conditions of the September 8, 2023 Order After Show Cause
Hearing as long as I do not have or possess an active respiratory care practitioner license
in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the September 8, 2023, Order After Show Cause
Hearing. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender, I am waiving my right to contest any charges that would be issued from Panel
B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had.the.
right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf
and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to circuit court.

I understand the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank and
Federation of State Medical Boards of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in the
event I apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, this Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order
that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Gen.
Prov. § 14-101 e¢ seg., and this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B
or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

Lacknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
