Respondent was scheduled to work from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Hospital Staff was unable

to reach Respondent for several hours at the beginning of his shift despite several

attempts by the unit nurse. Later, a respiratory therapist found Respondent asleep on the

floor and reported that it was difficult to rouse Respondent. Staff called Hospital Security

who reportedly found Respondent in an impaired state, incoherent, disheveled, with

slurred speech and unsteady gait. Staff transported Respondent to the ER for treatment

and toxicology screening. Respondent admitted to ER staff that he drank alcohol while

at work the evening of February 1, 2017.

15.

On May 22, 2017, Board staff interviewed the Director of Respiratory

Therapy at Hospital C (‘the Director of RT"), under oath, who stated:

a.

Respondent was hired in] uly 2016, to work at Hospital C on the night shift,
every third weekend;

On February 1, 2017, just prior to midnight, the Director of RT received a
telephone call from a charge therapist, informing the Director of RT that
Respondent had been found asleep on the floor in the Intensive Care Unit,
his speech was slurred, and he was disoriented. The Director of RT came
to Hospital C and spoke with Respondent in the ER, where Respondent had
been taken by hospital staff. According to the Director of RT, Respondent
was "impaired" and "disoriented." Respondent admitted to ER personnel
that he had been drinking alcohol. Respondent was discharged from the
ER at or about 5:00 a.m. on February 2, 2017. The Director of RT
accompanied Respondent to the hospital parking lot, but Respondent was
unable to remember where he parked his car. Ultimately, they found
Respondent's car in the doctors' parking lot; and

On February 6, 2017, Respondent admitted to the Director of RT that on
February 1, 2017, he left Hospital C and "had a few drinks in his car" and
then came back in the hospital. Respondent acknowledged to the Director
of RT that he had left the hospital during his shift on prior occasions to go
to his car, without approval. Respondent acknowledged that he frequently
parked on the doctors’ parking lot, which is close to the hospital, without
approval.
