 

respiratory care in Maryland on April 20, 2016, under License Number L06578. The expiration
date on the Respondent’s license is May 30, 2020."

2. On or about April 5, 2018, the Respondent submitted an online application (the
Application”) for the renewal of the Respondent’s license using the Board’s online renewal
application process.

3. When a licensee applies online to renew his or her license, the licensee checks a
box attesting that he or she has completed a Criminal History Records Check (““CHRC”) and
acknowledges on the same application that a licensee faces disciplinary action if the licensee
fails to comply with the CHRC requirement.

4. Prior to proceeding with the application, a pop-up screen appears that informs the
licensee that the Board may not renew a license if the Board has not reccived the licensee’s
CHRC information, which includes the licensee’s submission of his or her fingerprints to the
Criminal Justice Information Services (“CJIS”) before attempting to proceed with the renewal
application. The pop-up notice also notifies the licensee that failure to submit to a CHRC may
result in disciplinary action. The Respondent checked the box attesting that she completed the
CHRC, when she in fact had not, before proceeding with the Application.

5. The Respondent’s signed Application contains two acknowledgements/
affirmations by the Respondent that the Respondent had completed a CHRC.

6. By e-mail dated on or about December 13, 2018, Board staff informed the
Respondent that the Board had not received the CHRC.* Board staff further informed the
> By COVID Executive Order, the expiration date was extended until 30 days after the State of
Emergency ends. In any case, a license does not lapse while the individual is under investigation
or the charges are pending. Health Occ. § 14-403(a).

* Board staff used the e-mail address provided by the Respondent on the Application as the
“Official Email Address . . . the board will use for official correspondence.”

 
