 

On September 28, 2020, at 9:30 a.m., the ALJ called the telephone number supplied by
the Board for the Respondent, which came from the Respondent’s renewal application. The ALJ
reached an answering machine and the ALJ left her name, said that she was calling from OAH,
and asked the Respondent to call her assistant. The ALJ then called a second telephone number
provided to OAH by the Administrative Prosecutor. The Administrative Prosecutor said that this
second telephone number was given to him by the Respondent when he spoke with her several
months previous. When the ALJ called this second telephone number, the telephone was picked
up, no one answered, and then the call was disconnected by the recipient. The ALJ called again
with the same results,

After contacting the OAH Docket Specialist, as well as the ALJ’s assistant, to make sure
that the Respondent had not contacted them, the ALJ began the TSC on the record. The State
was represented by the Administrative Prosecutor from the Health Occupations and Litigation
Division of the Maryland Office of the Attorney General, who appeared for the TSC. The
Administrative Prosecutor noted that the Respondent told him that she would not participate in
the proceedings. The Administrative Prosecutor moved for default because the Respondent failed
to appear. The ALJ orally granted the motion for default.

However, after the TSC, in re-reading the Notice of TSC, the ALJ noted that the required
language that an absent party could be held in default was missing from the Notice of TSC. The
Code of Maryland Regulations (“COMAR”) 28.02.01.23A provides, “If, after receiving proper
notice, a party fails to attend or participate, either personally or through a representative, in a
prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the [ALJ] may proceed in that
party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated by the agency, issue a

final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.” But COMAR 28.02.01.05B(6)
