The Panel likewise will consider Ms. Hernandez’s testimony about her subsequent employment
and the content of the letter from her employer, but will not admit the additional document into
the record. The Panel accepts Ms. Hernandez’s testimony that she is licensed in California and has
practiced there without incident, but gives the evidence little weight due to the short duration of
her employment and the inability of the State to corroborate the authenticity of the reference and
to provide any evidence to the contrary. The ALJ concluded that the State proved its case against
Respondent based on the information from the initial Baltimore hospital regardless of her
subsequent employment and work performance in California. The Panel agrees and will not admit
R4 and R19-33, which were not part of the record at OAH.

Ms. Hernandez also takes exception to the ALJ’s conclusion that she failed to improve in
her job performance and argues that her evaluations in 2018 noted that she was improving. The
State responds that there is overwhelming evidence detailing numerous instances where Ms.
Hernandez failed to demonstrate the required knowledge to practice respiratory care safely and
that the performance evaluations are inadmissible because they were not part of the record
considered by the ALJ at OAH. The performance evaluations for July 1, 2017 - June 30, 2018 and
July 1, 2018 - June 30, 2019 are part of the OAH record and the Panel will consider the evaluations.
Ms. Hernandez’s supervisor testified that Ms. Hernandez started showing improvement after she
was placed on a performance improvement plan in 2018, but further testified that Ms. Hernandez’s
clinical skills plateaued and then regressed. The ALJ found that the supervisor counseled Ms.
Hernandez and brought her deficient clinical skills to her attention on numerous occasions, but
Ms. Hernandez persisted in incompetently providing care. The supervisor testified that even after
Ms. Hernandez attended the Employee Assistance Program, Ms. Hernandez’s clinical skills did

not reflect sufficient improvement. The Panel recognizes that Ms. Hernandez’s clinical skills
