hearing on February 23, 2022. After considering the entire record, including the evidentiary record
made before the ALJ, the written exceptions, and oral arguments by both parties, Panel B now
issues this Final Decision and Order.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B adopts the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact numbered 1-71. The Panel also adopts
the ALJ’s discussion on pages 16-26 of the Proposed Decision. The ALJ’s Proposed Decision of
December 10, 2021, is incorporated by reference into this Final Decision and Order and is
appended to this Order as Attachment A. The facts were proven by a preponderance of the
evidence. !

Ms. Hernandez was licensed by the Board as a respiratory care practitioner on August 18,
2016. Ms. Hernandez was employed at a hospital in Baltimore, Maryland as a full-time respiratory
therapist from the time of her hire on December 12, 2016 until she resigned on August 15, 2019.7
Ms. Hernandez was hired by her supervisor, who assigned her to work under more experienced
respiratory care practitioners, who acted as her preceptors and provided on the job training. The
preceptors reported to the supervisor that Ms. Hernandez was having difficulty prioritizing patient
care, so her supervisor accompanied her on rounds at the Hospital. The supervisor worked with
Ms. Hernandez to give her increased training, and extended her three month orientation period an
additional three months, for a total of six months. Ms. Hernandez was sensitive to criticism

regarding her work and resistant to counseling from her supervisor.

1 Ms. Hernandez argues that the proposed findings of fact are not supported by the evidence and documents in the
record. Ms. Hernandez does not give any specific examples of facts that she takes exception to or facts that she alleges
are not supported by the record. The panel has reviewed the ALJ’s proposed findings of fact and finds that the ALJ’s
proposed findings are supported by the record. Ms. Hernandez’s exception is denied.

? The names of hospitals and witnesses are not included in this document and are redacted from the ALJ Proposed
Decision to maintain confidentiality.
