Additional evidence is not permitted through the written exceptions process.) COMAR
10.32.02.05B(1)(e). At the oral exceptions hearing additional evidence may be accepted under
certain narrow conditions. COMAR 10.32.02.05B(3) provides:

At the oral exceptions hearing, the disciplinary panel may not accept additional
evidence unless:

(a) Both parties consent to the admission of additional documentary evidence and
the disciplinary panel determines that acceptance of the additional evidence would
promote the just and efficient completion of the process; or

(b) The disciplinary panel determines that either:

(i) A compelling reason exists that would create an obvious injustice if the

additional documentary evidence were not considered and the evidence can be

admitted without compromising the rights of the other party, including the other

party’s opportunity to see the proffered evidence in a timely manner or cross-

examine the source of the proffered document and present evidence to the contrary;

or

(ii) The evidence has been timely proffered before the administrative law judge and

the administrative law judge abused his or her discretion in refusing to admit the

evidence.
The State has not consented to the admission of the additional documentary evidence and the
evidence was not timely presented to the Administrative Law Judge. The State argues that Ms.
Hernandez has not shown a compelling reason for the Panel to consider the new evidence and that
admitting the new evidence now would be unfair because the State had no opportunity to perform
any cross-examination regarding the documents or present any evidence to the contrary. The Panel
agrees that admitting the additional evidence at the exceptions hearing would be unfair because
the State did not have the opportunity to question any of Ms. Hernandez’s subsequent employers
or present any evidence to the contrary. The Panel also agrees that Ms. Hernandez has not shown
a compelling reason for the Panel to admit the new evidence. Ms. Hernandez was permitted to

testify regarding her subsequent employment in Texas and California and read the letter of

reference aloud at the OAH hearing even though the ALJ did not permit the exhibit to be admitted.
