In January 2019, the Respondent left a patient requiring ventilation support alone to wait

‘for a CAT scan while the Respondent attended other patients. Later that month, the Respondent
failed to respond promptly to a call that a patient had pulled her breathing tube out and it needed
the Respondent’s skill to replace it to support the patient. In June 2019, the Respondent failed to
report to a nurse’s call to assist a patient who required suctioning of secretions to allow the
patient to breathe. At this point in her tenure, the Respondent had received counsel from more
experienced RCPs and extensive supervision :: =e but she remained unable to perform
the functions of her position. The Respondent was professionally incompetent to perform the
duties of an RCP «Ee. Her incompetence placed many patients at serious risk of harm.

BE esis clearly, calmly and in great detail about the Respondent’s
deficiencies. She was subject to thorough cross-examination by Ee did not waver
or contradict herself. I did not detect any bias, evasion, or exaggeration in her important
testimony. There were numerous contemporaneous notations made by Paes. counseling
she conducted one-on-one with the Respondent in her office. a ©: supportive of the
Respondent and her efforts to learn the requirements of her profession. One example was when
the two had a fairly contentious discussion about the Respondent’s performance, and the next
day the Respondent told Es that she was going to take her mother’s advice and be more
_ open to constructive criticism and stay calm. Ez supported that goal and offered her open
door to the Respondent for any future problems.

The Respondent testified, refusing to acknowledge any deficiencies in her performance.
She testified that MT tccate her unfairly and bullied her. The Respondent’s defensive,

somewhat combative testimony totally failed to address the specific clinical deficiencies

enumerated by es. testimony and corroborated by a: contemporaneous notes

20
