ORDER

It is, on an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the June 13, 2017 Disposition Agreement is terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that the respiratory care practitioner license of Michael C. Nero, R.C.P.,

license number L06765, is SUSPENDED? for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS. During the

period of suspension, Mr. Nero shall comply with all of the following terms and conditions:

1,

Mr. Nero shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in his Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

Mr. Nero shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP referrals, rules,
and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

Mr, Nero’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a
violation of this Order;

Mr. Nero shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the
Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information form MPRP records and files in a public order. A failure to, or
withdrawal of, consent, is a violation of this Order;

Mr. Nero shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of Mr,
Nero’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information

? If Mr. Nero’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be tolled,
> During the suspension period, Mr, Nero shall not:

(1) practice as a respiratory care practitioner;

(2) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the public as a current provider
of medical services;
authorize, allow or condone the use of Mr. Nero’s name or provider number by any health care practice or
any other licensee or health care provider;
function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility in the State; or
perform any act that requires an active respiratory care practitioner license.

GB

oS

(4)
6)
