Michael Nero, RCP
Date: J iLLy’ Ob 2020

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Bloor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

 

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Respiratory Care
Michael Nero, RCP License Number: L06765
Case Number: 7720-0083

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md, Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5A-16 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice respiratory care in the State of Maryland, License Number L06765, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of respiratory care in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Respiratory Care Practitioners Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5A-01 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that, on February 27, 2020, Panel A issued an Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation placing me on probation for a minimum of five years
and required that I remained enrolled in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) and to continue in my participate rehabilitation agreement. A copy of
the Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1. 1 acknowledge that the
Board was notified by MPRP that | violated my Rehabilitation Agreement. The Board
requested a written response and I advised the Board of my desire to be removed from the
MPRP and surrender my license. I have decided to surrender my license to practice
respiratory care in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of
the allegations that I violated the February 27, 2020 Order Terminating Suspension and
Imposing Probation. I acknowledge that the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing
Probation remains and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however,
upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I will not be required to comply with the

conditions of the Order as long as I do not have or possess a respiratory care license in
Maryland.
