concerning Mr, Nero and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Mr, Nero, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records; and it is further

ORDERED that Mr. Nero shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it is
further .

ORDERED that, after a minimum of six months las passed and Mr. Nero has fully and
satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension, Mr. Nero may submit a
written petition for termination of the suspension. After a determination that Mr. Nero has fully
and satisfactorily complied with the relevant terms and conditions of the suspension, the
disciplinary panel may administratively terminate Mr. Nero’s suspension through an order of the
disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, upon termination of the suspension, Mr. Nero shall be placed on
PROBATION? for a minimum period of FIVE (5) YEARS. During the probationary period,

Mr. Nero shall comply with the following terms and conditions:

1. Mr. Nero shall remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in his Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

2, Mr. Nero shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP referrals, rules,
and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

3. Mr. Nero’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a
violation of this Order;

4. Mr. Nero shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the

Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant

“If Mr. Nero’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.
