information form MPRP records and files in a public order. A failure to, or
withdrawal of, consent, is a violation of this Order;

5. Mr. Nero shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of Mi.
Nero’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Mr. Nero and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Mr. Nero, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records; and it is further
ORDERED that Mr. Nero shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further
ORDERED that after a minimum of five years has passed and Mr. Nero has fully and
satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of probation, Mr. Nero may submit a
written petition for termination of probation, After consideration of the petition, the probation
may be terminated through an order of a disciplinary panel, Mr. Nero may be required to appear
before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may
grant the petition to terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Mr.
. Nero has successfully complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and if there are
. no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is further
ORDERED that if Mr. Nero allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Mr. Nero shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the
disciplinary panel determines that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If the
disciplinary panel determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Mr. Nero shall
be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that

Mr. Nero has failed to comply with any term.or condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary
