entry of a default order against the Respondent and requested that the ALJ propose the revocation
of the Respondent’s licensure under the Maryland Respiratory Care Practitioners Act. Health Occ.
§ 14-5A-17(a)(3) and (26). The ALJ took the motion for entry of a default order against the
Respondent under advisement.

Under OAH’s Rules of Procedure, “[iJf, after receiving proper notice, a party fails to attend
or participate in a prehearing conference, hearing, or other stage of a proceeding, the judge may
proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the hearing authority delegated by the
agency, issue a final or proposed default order against the defaulting party.” COMAR
28.02.01.23A. Similarly, the Health Occupations Article provides, in pertinent part:

(d) If after due notice the individual against whom the action is

contemplated fails or refuses to appear, nevertheless the hearing officer

may hear and refer the matter to the Board or a disciplinary panel for

disposition.

(e) After performing any necessary hearing under this section, the hearing

officer shall refer proposed factual findings to the Board or a disciplinary

panel for the Board’s or disciplinary panel’s disposition.
Health Occ. § 14-405. Read in conjunction with the OAH Rules of Procedure, § 14-405(d), which
provides that the ALJ “may hear”! the matter if the individual fails to appear, and § 14-405(e),
which uses the language “any necessary hearing,” clearly contemplate situations such as defaults
where no hearing on the merits is required. (Italics added); see also COMAR 28.02.01.23A.

Upon consideration of the record, the ALJ found that the Respondent, who has not
appeared, attended, or participated in any proceedings related to the charges against her, had proper

notice of the February 23, 2023, Prehearing Conference and failed to appear in the Prehearing

Conference.

' The word “may” is generally considered to be permissive, as opposed to mandatory, language.
Board of Physician Quality Assurance, 381 Md. 157, 166-67 (2004).

4

 
