On January 26, 2023, the ALJ convened the Prehearing Conference, and the Administrative
Prosecutor appeared for the State. The Respondent did not appear. In assessing whether the
Respondent received proper notice of the Prehearing Conference, it was determined that the notice
of the Prehearing Conference was not sent to one of the Mississippi addresses and that the notice
sent to the other Mississippi address contained an incorrect zip code. Because the notices of the
Prehearing Conference were not sent to all of the Respondent’s known addresses, the ALJ
exercised his discretion to conduct a Second Scheduling Conference instead of the Prehearing
Conference. On February 1, 2022, the ALJ issued the Second Scheduling Order, scheduling a
Prehearing on Webex for 9:30 a.m., on February 23, 2023; a remote merits hearing on Webex for
9:30 a.m., on April 20-21, 2023; and discovery deadlines based, in part, on the first hearing date.

On January 26-27, 2023, OAH separately mailed notices for the Prehearing Conference
and the remote merits hearing to the Respondent. The notice for the Prehearing Conference stated
that failure to attend the Prehearing Conference could result in a decision against the party failing
to appear. The notices sent to one of the Mississippi addresses were returned by USPS with the
notation “no such street address.” The Second Scheduling order sent to this address was returned
by USPS for the same reason. None of the other notices mailed by OAH to the parties were
returned by the Postal Service, and there was no request for a postponement of the Prehearing
Conference. The Respondent has not updated her address with OAH or the Board.

On February 23, 2023, the ALJ convened the Prehearing Conference, and the
Administrative Prosecutor appeared for the State. The Respondent did not appear. After waiting
more than fifteen minutes, the ALJ commenced the Prehearing Conference. The ALJ reviewed
the record and determined that the Respondent received proper notice of the Prehearing

Conference. Based on the Respondent’s failure to appear, the State made an oral motion for the
