Harish K. Vaidya, NMT

Chair

Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Nuclear Medicine Technology
Harish K. Vaidya, NMT. License Number: N00212
Case Number: 2220-0228A

Dear Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5B-13 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2020 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice nuclear medicine technology in the State of Maryland, License Number
N00212, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
engage in the practice of nuclear medicine technology, with or without compensation, in
the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography,
Nuclear Medicine Technology and Radiology Assistance Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§
14-5B-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the
same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on April
26, 2021, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-5B-
14(a)(3) and pertinent provisions of the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations.
Specifically, Panel A alleged that I engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of
nuclear medicine technology when I inappropriately touched a female patient. A copy of
the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to surrender my license to practice
nuclear medicine technology in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and
prosecution of these disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges. I
acknowledge that for all purposes related to nuclear medicine technology licensure, the
charges will be treated as if proven.
