Respondent’s failure to appear for evaluation

17. On March 10, 2021, Board staff emailed and mailed the Respondent a letter
notifying him that pursuant to Health Occ. §14-402(a),> the Board was directing him to
appear at the offices of the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) on
March 15, 2021 at 10:00 a.m. for an intake evaluation for the purpose of scheduling an
examination.°

18. On March 15, 2021 at 10:04 a.m., the Respondent emailed MPRP staff,
stating, “I am no longer interested. It seems clear that somehow rehabilitation is to take
place for having different views.” In order to provide the Respondent with an additional
opportunity to comply with the examination requirement, the Board rescheduled the
Respondent’s appointment for March 17, 2021 at 11:00 a.m.

19. Board staff emailed and mailed the Respondent a second letter notifying him
of the rescheduled date and time and again informed him that the unreasonable failure or

refusal to submit to examination constitutes prima facie evidence of a licensed

> Health Oce. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification or in investigating
an allegation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under
this title, the Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board on its own
initiative may direct, the licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the Board under
this title to submit to an appropriate examination. Health Occ § 14-402(c) states: The unreasonable failure
or refusal of the licensed individual to submit to an examination is prima facie evidence of the licensed
individual’s inability to practice medicine or the respective discipline competently, unless the Board or
disciplinary pane! finds that the failure or refusal was beyond the control of the licensed individual.

6 Due to COVID restrictions the Respondent was provided a link to appear for the examination via Zoom.
