offices of the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) on March 15, 2021 at
10:00 a.m. for an intake evaluation for the purpose of scheduling an examination. On March 15,
2021 at 10:04 a.m., the Respondent emailed MPRP staff, stating, “I am no longer interested. It
seems clear that somehow rehabilitation is to take place for having different views.” In order to
provide the Respondent with an additional opportunity to comply with the examination
requirement, the Board rescheduled the Respondent’s appointment for March 17, 2021 at 11:00
am,

Board staff emailed and mailed the Respondent a second letter notifying him of the
rescheduled date and time and again informed him that the unreasonable failure or refusal to
submit to examination constitutes prima facie evidence of a licensed practitioner’s inability to
practice nuclear medicine technology, unless the Board finds that the failure or refusal was
beyond the control of the individual. On March 16, 2021 at 4:28 p.m., the Respondent emailed
Board staff, stating, “Received, thank you. I’ve notified [his contact person at MPRP] that I
intend to make meeting at 11:00 am.” On March 17, 2021 at 10:39 am., the Respondent
emailed MPRP staff and stated, “Apologies for wasting your time and efforts but I can find no
way to consent to this process and will not meet with zoom today.” In response, MPRP staff
telephoned the Respondent to give him an opportunity to ask questions about the evaluation
process and he confirmed his decision not to submit to the evaluation. The Respondent also left
Board staff a voicemail after work hours on March 17, 2021, stating that he “cannot consent to

this process,” would no longer speak to anyone at MPRP and that “this is a witch hunt.”

 

evidence of the licensed individual’s inability to practice medicine or the respective discipline
competently, unless the Board or disciplinary panel finds that the failure or refusal was beyond the control
of the licensed individual.

® Due to COVID restrictions the Respondent was provided a link to appear for the examination via Zoom,

10
