“gotten back” at a co-worker who previously reported him to the Facility’s Human Resources
department.

The second complaint was filed on September 17, 2020 by a patient’s spouse. The
patient’s spouse stated that while his wife (the “Patient”) was undergoing a two-hour-long
hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid? scan on September 15, 2020, the Respondent subjected her to a
variety of conspiracy theories that made her feel very uncomfortable. Specifically, the
Respondent, while alone with the Patient in the test room, brought up racist and anti-Semitic
conspiracy theories,‘ used racist language when referring to African Americans and described
the Catholic Church as an evil organization responsible for the QAnon conspiracy of pedophilia.
The Patient’s spouse further stated that the Respondent frightened the Patient during the
procedure because he was responsible for placing an intravenous radioactive tracer in her arm,
and she questioned whether he had properly administered the radioactive agent and performed
the examination. The Patient’s spouse also reported that the Patient was traumatized by the
incident and immediately reported her concerns to him after the appointment. The Patient
requested to remain anonymous due to her fear that the Respondent would retaliate against her.
The Patient’s spouse stated,

[The Patient] was placed in a very uncomfortable position she was
undergoing a test that took over two hours, she was in no position to
challenge the Tech on these conspiracy theories or to leave the situation.
She was not even allowed to move during the procedure. She was very
uncomfortable and tried to change the subject multiple times, she did not
engage or wish to engage in a conversation about these ridiculous
conspiracy theories . . . [w]e have serious concerns about someone’s

mental health and fitness to do their job and for a health professional who
holds these beliefs and preaches them to patients.

3 This test is commonly referred to as a HIDA scan.

* Specifically, the Patient’s spouse stated, “Of most concern was that [the Respondent] advocated a
‘Blood Liable (sic)’ conspiracy theory that has been responsible for the murder of thousands of Jewish
people since the Middle Ages; he told my wife that satanic Jews drink the blood of young children.” The
actual term for this bigoted trope is “Blood Libel.”
