Board staff interviewed the Respondent’s Co-Worker on February 26, 2021, during which she
confirmed the allegations she made in her complaint to the Facility. The Co-Worker stated that
the Respondent was a “conspiracy theorist” who expressed racist and sexist beliefs in the
“workplace in front of her and other Facility staff persons. In this interview, the Co-Worker
expressed concerns for her safety about having filed her complaint.

Board staff interviewed the Patient on March 15, 2021, who confirmed the statements her
spouse made in his complaint to the Facility. The Patient stated that on September 15, 2020, she
underwent a two-hour procedure that the Respondent conducted. The Patient stated that during
the first part of the test, the Respondent informed her that she may need to have her gallbladder
removed which caused her to begin to panic. She said that they began to talk about diet during
which the Respondent informed her that McDonald’s places the meat of little children in its
hamburgers. He stated there are a lot of “hidden secrets” that people are unaware of, such as that
the California governor is a pedophile and “has just opened up the laws allowing pedophilia in
California.” The Patient stated that she remained quiet but the Respondent repeatedly “came up
to [her] face” and told her to “hold on to her child tight.” The Patient stated that this made her
feel fearful because she has a young child and the Respondent kept talking about a pedophilia
ring kidnapping young children.

According to the Patient, the Respondent further stated that there were “Satanic Jews”
who have “been drinking little kids’ blood for hundreds of years.” He also stated that actors in
Hollywood drink the blood of little children to stay young. The Patient stated that the
Respondent’s comments made her feel sick to her stomach but she was unable to move due to
the nature of the examination. She stated, “at this point I can’t get out... | was hoping someone

would knock on the door to see how I was doing... .” She stated that she closed her eyes and
