By letter dated October 26, 2020, the Board notified the Respondent that it had opened an
investigation on him after receiving information that the Facility separated him from
employment on September 29, 2020. The Board requested that the Respondent address the
matter in a written response. By letter to the Board dated November 3, 2020, the Respondent
stated that on September 29, 2020, the Facility “ended my employment of 20 years . . . largely as
part of their response to a Patient complaint received September 17, 2020. The body of the
complaint was objecting to topics of conversation while patient exam was performed, i.e.
politics, religion etc.” The Respondent added that “a similar complaint was registered via
internal corporate hotline by a fellow employee prior to this incident and I was issued a warning
by superiors about inappropriate topics of conversation in the workplace.” The Respondent
stated that he believed that the Facility was “not willing to tolerate another policy violation and
therefore to end my employment was the only recourse.”

As part of its investigation, the Board acquired the Facility’s Human Resources file on
the Respondent, which documented two complaints against him. The first complaint was filed
on September 13, 2019, by one of the Respondent’s co-workers (the “Co-Worker’), who
reported that the Respondent made comments to her that made her feel uncomfortable.
Specifically, the Co-Worker alleged that the Respondent had been disrespectful and
condescending toward her and often used racial slurs, made sexist comments, inappropriately
discussed religious beliefs and referred to some co-workers as “stupid a-holes.” The Co-Worker
stated that the previous week, the Respondent stated to her that “there are dead babies in
McDonald’s cheeseburgers and in the same conversation how ‘Jews’ buy baby blood on the
black market and they torture people to release adrenaline in their blood and sadistically drink

it.” The Co-Worker also reported to the Facility that the Respondent informed her that he had
