with a hearing. The ALJ informed Mr. Muller that the telephone pre-hearing conference would
take place on September 9, 2021 at 9:30 a.m. As such, Mr. Muller had actual knowledge of the
prehearing conference date and time. Mr. Muller confirmed his telephone number and email
address and did not inform OAH that his address of record had changed.

On August 9, 2021, the ALJ issued a Scheduling Order that notified the parties of the
date, time, of the Prehearing Conference and that the Prehearing Conference would be conducted
by telephone. It notified the parties that OAH would issue a prehearing conference notice with
further information and instructions. It contained email and phone contact information for each
party and asked the parties to correct the contact information if incorrect. The Scheduling Order
directed both parties to submit a prehearing conference statement with a list of witnesses and
exhibits by August 19, 2021. It was mailed to each party and the parties’ respective addressees
of record. The United States Postal Service did not return to OAH the Scheduling Order mailed
to Mr. Muller. The State submitted a prehearing conference statement on August 10, 2021. Mr.
Muller did not submit a prehearing conference statement.

On August 10, 2021, OAH sent to Mr. Muller, via United States mail, a Notice of
Remote Prehearing Conference to his address of record. Under the Maryland Radiation Therapy,
Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology and Radiology Assistance Act, Mr. Muller was
required to notify the Board in writing of a change in name or address within 60 days after the
change. Health Occ. § 14-5B-12.1(a). The notice informed the parties that the prehearing
conference would be held on September 9, 2021, at 9:30 a.m. via the WebEx videoconferencing
platform. The Notice attached instructions on how to access the WebEx platform. Attached to
the notice was a document entitled “Remote Prehearing Conference Instructions” which directed

the parties to submit a prehearing conference statement in advance of the hearing. The notice
