pretended to be asleep but he just got more passionate about this subject matter and continued to
get very close to her face. The Patient also said that he referred to her as “sheep” and stated that
she needs to awaken. He went on to tell her that the Pope is dead and that his presence at Easter
Mass was actually a hologram. The Respondent also stated that the comedian Dave Chapelle is
also dead and that he had a message for the “sheep” but a “higher power” killed him to “shut him
up.”

The Respondent also told the Patient that the deceased John F, Kennedy, Jr., and his wife
were alive and he saw him “with [his] own eyes at a Trump rally.” The Respondent proceeded to
show the Patient a magazine from the early 2000s with JFK Jr. on the cover and stated “the
Higher Power wants you to think he’s dead” but he is in fact alive and living in Pennsylvania
under a different name. The Respondent stated, “There’s a plan he’s going to run alongside
Trump and get us out of this.” The Patient stated that the Respondent also made racist comments
about Aftican Americans, specifically mentioning Oprah Winfrey. The Respondent stated, “if
Biden gets elected, that Biden will send all the African Americans back to their plantations.”

The Patient stated that she was shaking and was very concerned about the Respondent’s
mental health, stating, “I was very afraid to say anything against him because he was in charge of
my intravenous medicine.” She stated that the Respondent kept “jumping from topic to topic, not
really making the connection, just kind of all over the place.”

On March 10, 2021, Board staff emailed and mailed the Respondent a letter notifying

him that pursuant to Health Occ. §14-402(a),° the Board was directing him to appear at the

> Health Occ. § 14-402(a) states: In reviewing an application for licensure, certification or in
investigating an allegation against a licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the
Board under this title, the Physician Rehabilitation Program may request the Board to direct, or the Board
on its own initiative may direct, the licensed physician or any allied health professional regulated by the
Board under this title to submit to an appropriate examination. Health Occ. § 14-402(c) states: The
unreasonable failure or refusal of the licensed individual to submit to an examination is prima facie
