Mr. Henson was initially licensed as a nuclear medicine technologist in the State of
Maryland in May 2016. In 2021, the Board received information that Mr. Henson was convicted
of Driving While Intoxicated in 2013 and in 2019. To resolve the Board’s concerns, Mr. Henson
agreed to enter into a non-public Disposition Agreement with Panel A in lieu of further
investigation and potential disciplinary charges for a violation of the Maryland Radiation Therapy,
Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act.

Disposition Agreement: August 27, 2021

On August 27, 2021, Panel A and Mr. Henson agreed to a non-public Disposition
Agreement wherein Mr. Henson agreed to enter into a Board-monitored Participant’ Rehabilitation
Agreement with MPRP. Mr. Henson agreed to fulfill all conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement. The Agreement also stated:

AGREED, that if the MPRP discharges [Mr. Henson] for unsuccessful
completion of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement or rehabilitation plan, or if

[Mr. Henson] fails to comply with any term or condition of this Agreement, this

Agreement shall be treated as a public Consent Order, the violation of which

authorizes the Board or a Board panel, after notice and an opportunity to be heard,

to take any action prescribed under § 14-5B-14(a) of the Maryland [Radiation

Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance

Act], including a reprimand, probation, suspension or revocation of [Mr. Henson’s

Nuclear Medicine Technologist] license; and/or fine.

On or about September 21, 2021, Mr. Henson enrolled in MPRP and signed a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement.

Violation of August 27, 2021 Disposition Agreement

On October 8, 2021, MPRP notified the Board that Mr. Henson had failed. to return certain

documentation requested by MPRP in violation of the terms of his Participant Rehabilitation

Agreement. In a letter, dated October 12, 2021, the Board notified Mr. Henson that the failure to

cooperate and comply with MPRP may result in disciplinary action against his license up to and
