statements to Board staff that he had not been working as a nuclear medicine technologist during
his suspension, and his subsequent attempts to trivialize the seriousness of his continued prohibited
practice in his written response to Board staff and in his presentation at the Show Cause hearing.
Since 2021, Mr. Henson has been given multiple chances to prove to Panel A, by undergoing
rehabilitation with MPRP, that he is committed to remediating his conduct. He failed to do so. The
panel will not ignore its deterrent function. Neither the public nor the nuclear medicine technology
profession would be served if Panel A ignores Mr. Henson’s unwillingness or inability to abide by
the panel’s directives. Accordingly, Panel A will reprimand Mr. Henson and suspend his nuclear
medicine technology license for an additional six-month period.
ORDER

It is, on an affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A, hereby
ORDERED that the August 23, 2022 Order is terminated; and it is further
ORDERED that Fysal Henson, NMT, is REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that the nuclear medicine technologist license of Mr. Henson, license number
N01623, is SUSPENDED*® for an additional minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS; and it is further
ORDERED that during the suspension period, Mr. Henson shall not at any time:
(a) practice as a nuclear medicine technologist;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of nuclear
medicine technology services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Mr. Henson’s name or provider number by
any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

4 Mr. Henson’s nuclear medicine technologist license expired on April 30, 2023. The time period of the suspension
and the conditions of suspension are tolled until Mr. Henson applies for reinstatement and administratively reinstates
his nuclear medicine technologist license under the relevant provisions of COMAR 10.32.10.13B. The additional
suspension period and any conditions imposed by this Order will go into effect if and when Mr. Henson’s license is
administratively reinstated. COMAR 10.32.02.05C(3)(a).

9
