(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of nuclear medicine
technology services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Mr. Henson’s name or provider number by any
health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical care facility
in the State; or

(e) perform any other act that requires an active nuclear medical technologist license.

In addition, the Order stated that:

If Mr. Henson allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Order, Mr. Henson shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing.. If the
disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary
panel; and, if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a

material fact, Mr. Henson shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary
panel. :

Panel A further:
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that Mr. Henson has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed -by this
Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand Mr. Henson, place Mr. Henson on
probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke Mr.
Henson’s license to practice nuclear medicine technology in Maryland. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine upon Mr. Henson
On September 20, 2022, Mr. Henson reenrolled in MPRP, and signed a new Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement that was in effect from September 20, 2022 to March 20, 2023.

Current Violation
Violation of the August 2022 Order

On February 22, 2023, a representative of a health care facility (the “Facility”)’ notified

the Board that Mr. Henson had actively worked as a nuclear medicine technologist for the Facility

3 For confidentiality reasons, the name of the Facility will not be disclosed in this Order.

5
