with Panel A in lieu of further investigation and potential disciplinary charges for a violation of
the Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology
Assistance Act.
August 27, 2021 Disposition Agreement

On August 27, 2021, Panel A and Mr. Henson agreed to a non-public Disposition
Agreement wherein Mr. Henson agreed to enter into a Board-monitored Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP. Mr. Henson agreed to fulfill all conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. The Agreement also stated that it was

AGREED, that if the MPRP discharges [Mr. Henson] for unsuccessful

completion of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement or rehabilitation plan, or

if [Mr. Henson] fails to comply with any term or condition of this Agreement, this

Agreement shall be treated as a public Consent Order, the violation of which

authorizes the Board or a Board panel, after notice and an opportunity to be heard,

to take any action prescribed under § 14-5B-14(a) of the Maryland [Radiation

Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance

Act], including a reprimand, probation, suspension or revocation of [Mr.

Henson’s Nuclear Medicine Technologist] license; and/or fine.

On or about September 21, 2021, Mr. Henson enrolled in MPRP and signed a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement.
Violation of August 27, 2021 Disposition Agreement

On October 8, 2021, MPRP notified the Board that Mr. Henson had failed to return
certain documentation requested by MPRP in violation of the terms of his Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement. In a letter, dated October 12, 2021, the Board notified Mr. Henson
that the failure to cooperate and comply with MPRP may result in disciplinary action against his
license up to and including revocation. On December 7, 2021, MPRP notified the Board that Mr.

Henson violated his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement on five occasions between October 29,

2021 and December 1, 2021.! On December 23, 2021, MPRP notified the Board that they had

 

' The nature of the violation is confidential.
