ORDERED that the nuclear medicine technologist license of Mr. Henson, license
number N01623, is SUSPENDED® for a minimum of SIX (6) MONTHS, and until MPRP
finds, and notifies the Board that Mr. Henson is safe to practice nuclear medicine technology.

During the period of suspension, Mr. Henson shall comply with all of the following terms and

conditions:

1. Mr. Henson shall reenroll and remain enrolled in MPRP and continue in a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

2. Mr. Henson shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP referrals,
rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered
with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatment,
evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

3. Mr. Henson’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall constitute a
violation of this Order;

4. Mr. Henson hall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the
Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal
and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant
information form MPRP records and files in a public order. A failure to, or
withdrawal of, consent, is a violation of this Order;

5. Mr. Henson shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including all of Mr.
Henson’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning Mr. Henson and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Mr. Henson, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or
alcohol evaluation and treatment records; and it is further

ORDERED that during the suspension period, Mr. Henson shall not:
(a) practice as a nuclear medicine technologist;

(b) take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a current provider of nuclear
medicine technology services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Mr. Henson’s name or provider number by any
health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

> If Mr. Henson’s license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions will be
tolled.
