while his license was suspended, and that the Facility terminated his employment for this reason.
The notification stated in part:

I am writing to report a concern. Fysal Henson was hired by [the Facility] as a

Nuclear Medicine Technologist on 8/23/2021. At the time of hire and background

screening, his license appeared active and without restriction or reprimand. Since

hire, the attached occurred in which it appears that he violated orders from MBOP

and subsequently had his license suspended effective 8/23/22. In the order it states

that he is not allowed to work in a nuclear medicine technologist capacity for a

minimum of six months and until remediation of the deficiencies in the order. He

did not notify our organization of this action or the suspension and subsequently

continued to work actively as a Nuclear Medicine Technologist at our facility until

Monday, 2/20/23 when the suspension was discovered. Upon discovery, he was

immediately removed from the schedule and suspended, and subsequently

terminated today for working with a suspended license.

On February 22, 2023, Mr. Henson telephoned a Board staff person for instructions on
reinstating his license. During the conversation, Mr. Henson stated that during his license
suspension, he was employed at a gas station and had not been working as a nuclear medicine
technologist during the suspension period.

As part of its ensuing investigation into Mr. Henson’s compliance with the August 2022
Order, the Board obtained the Facility’s human resources file on Mr. Henson. The file documented
that from or about August 23, 2022, through on or about February 22, 2023, Mr. Henson worked
as a nuclear medicine technologist, either on an on-call basis or at the Facility itself while
suspended under the August 2022 Order. The file further documented that the Facility terminated
Mr. Henson’s employment on or about February 22. 2023.

In a letter dated March 3, 2022, the Board informed Mr. Henson that it had received
information he had been actively working as a nuclear medicine technologist at the Facility from

August 23, 2022 until February 22, 2023, during the time his license was suspended. The Board

requested that Mr. Henson address the matter in a written response. On March 8, 2023, Mr. Henson
