The Consent Order further stated:

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any
term or condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given
notice and an opportunity for a hearing. Ifa disciplinary panel determines there is
a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an
Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by
an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if a disciplinary panel
determines there is no genuine dispute of fact, the Respondent shall be given a
show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel

determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition of

this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place

the Respondent on further probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or

suspend with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s

license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition

to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon

the Respondent. ]

On or about September 28, 2020, Ms. Hyler enrolled in MPRP and signed a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and an Addendum to the Rehabilitation Agreement.
Violation of September 3, 2020 Consent Order

On October 27, 2020, MPRP notified the Board that Ms. Hyler had violated the terms of
her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. In a letter, dated November 7, 2020, Ms. Hyler
acknowledged that she violated the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement. On November 17,
2020, MPRP notified the Board of a second violation and, on November 20, 2020, MPRP
notified the Board of a third violation. On December 2, 2020, MPRP advised the Board that Ms.
Hyler notified MPRP of her intent to withdraw from MPRP. On December 4, 2020, MPRP
discharged Ms. Hyler from the program for cause.

Show Cause Hearing
