 

proceed to a hearing, | agree that the State would be able to prove that | violated the
following provisions of COMAR 10.32.07.07C: (4) Immoral or unprofessional conduct of
the unlicensed medical practitioner in the postgraduate training program; and (7)
Practicing medicine while: (b) Using any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as
defined in Criminal Law Article, Annotated Code of Maryland, or other drug that is in
excess of therapeutic amounts or without valid medical indication. For purposes related
to registration/medical licensure, these charges will be treated as proven.

| wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned disciplinary
charges under the Act and COMAR.

| understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, | am waiving my right to
contest the disciplinary charges issued by Disciplinary Panel B and its investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which | would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and to all
other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that | have surrendered
my registration in lieu of further disciplinary action under the Act. | also understand that
in the event | would apply for registration or licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction, this Letter of Surrender and any underlying investigative documents may be
released or published by the Board or Disciplinary Panel B to the same extent as a Final
Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary
action by Disciplinary Panel B.

| affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, | will present to the Board
my original Maryland unlicensed medical practitioner registration, registration number
P32070. | also affirm that | will provide access to and copies of patient medical records
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

| further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
registration will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that | apply for reinstatement of my Maryland registration, | understand that
Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant
reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers
appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the
profession. | further understand that if | file a petition for reinstatement, | will approach
Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose registration has
been revoked. | also understand that if | apply for reinstatement, | bear the burden of
demonstrating my professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the
satisfaction of Panel B or its successor.
