 

Sofian J. Al-Khatib, M.D.

pate: 10 /o F/Q016

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair, Disciplinary Panel B
Maryland State Board of Physicians

4th Floor

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Re: Surrender of Unlicensed Medical Practitioner Registration
Registration Number: P32070
Case Number: 2016-0366B

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that | have decided to SURRENDER my registration to
practice as an unlicensed medical practitioner in the State of Maryland, Registration
Number P32070, effective immediately. | understand that upon surrender of my
registration, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il ("Health Occ. II") §§ 14-101 ef seq. (2014
Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my registration means that | am
in the same position as an unlicensed/unregistered individual in the State of Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and that
upon the acceptance of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the "Board"), becomes a FINAL ORDER of the panel.

| acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of me after a health care
facility (the "Facility") in Maryland where | was enrolled in a fellowship reported that |
took a leave of absence from duty following an emergency room visit to an outside
hospital for an opioid overdose. On June 28, 2016, Disciplinary Panel B issued
disciplinary charges against me under the Act and Md. Code Regs. ("COMAR’") in which
it alleged that while enrolled in a fellowship at the Facility, | used illicit substances and
had been hospitalized on two separate occasions for opioid overdoses. A copy of
Disciplinary Panel B's disciplinary charges is attached hereto and incorporated herein.

| have decided to surrender my registration to practice as an unlicensed medical
practitioner in the State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges now pending before the Board. If the disciplinary charges in this case were to
