pate: NWN GAIVIO

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re; Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Christopher Montgomery, Radiographer

License Number: R01025

Case Number: 2220-0196

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to
practice radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number: R01025, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice
radiography in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Radiation Therapy,
Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act (the “Act”),
Health Occ. §§ 14-5B-01 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B’”’) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”.

I acknowledge that the Board received notification from a facility in Maryland
that my employment at the facility had been terminated for communicating with
coworkers in an unprofessional manner and that the Board initiated an investigation into
the allegations. I have decided to surrender my license to practice radiography in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and
due to my current health conditions and planned retirement. I recognize that for all
purposes relevant to radiography licensure that these allegations shall be treated as
proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-
5B-14(a)(3).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
