 

Michelle Wyrick, Radiographer

Date: ZlS | 1S

Damean W.E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Michelle Wyrick, Radiographer, License Number: R01647
Case Number: 7715-0102

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R01647, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice radiography in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear
Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act (the “Act’), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. §§ 14-5B-01 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol. and 2017 Supp.) and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B’’) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation concerning my decision to
cease compliance with certain rehabilitation obligations and conditions of an agreement I
entered into with the Board. I have decided to surrender my license to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation of the non-compliance
with the agreement.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid additional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the agreement. I do not wish to contest that I have failed to comply with the
agreement. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right
to contest any violation that would issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
