Damean W.E. Freas, D.O. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Michelle Wyrick, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license as
if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and
that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my
license will remain surrendered unless and until Panel B grants reinstatement. In the
event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B or
its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked. I also
understand that if I apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my
professional competence and fitness to practice radiography to the satisfaction of Panel B
or its successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised
of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before
Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of
Surrender. I have knowingly and willfully waived my right to be represented by an
attorney before signing this letter surrendering my license to practice radiography in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender
fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms
and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature on Fi ile, diographer
