Damean Freas, D.O., and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Elizabeth L. Myers, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

On July 13, 2020, Disciplinary Panel B issued an Order Terminating Suspension
and Imposing Probation that terminated the suspension of my license, placed me on
probation for a minimum of three (3) years, and required that I continue enrollment in
MPRP and continue to comply with all of the requirements imposed by MPRP. A copy of
the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation is attached and incorporated
herein as Attachment 2.

1 have decided to surrender my license to practice radiography in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms of the Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation and because 1 am no longer working as a radiographer.
I acknowledge that the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation remains
and will continue to be a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the
Letter of Surrender, | will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Order as
long as I do not have or possess an active radiography license in Maryland.

1 wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the Order Terminating Suspension and
Imposing Probation. | do not wish to contest these allegations. 1 understand that by
executing this Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right to contest any charges that would
issue from Panel B’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which 1 would
have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on
my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal to circuit court.

1 understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action
by Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board or a disciplinary panel of the Board
grants reinstatement. In the event that ] apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, |
understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose terms and conditions in conformity with or in
addition to those set forth in the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation. I
further understand that if 1 ever file a petition for reinstatement, 1 will approach Panel B or
its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

l acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
