The Respondent shall comply with the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement into

which she entered with the MPRP and will fulfill all conditions of the

Participation Rehabilitation Agreement.
The Disposition Agreement further provided:

AGREED, that . . . if the Respondent fails to comply with any term or condition

of this Agreement, this Agreement shall be treated as a public Consent Order, the

violation of which authorizes the Board or a Board panel, after notice and

opportunity to be heard, to take any action prescribed under § 14-5SB -14(a) of the

. .. Act, including a reprimand, probation, suspension or revocation of the

Respondent’s license; and/or fine.

On September 13, 2021, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto signed a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement with MPRP for an indefinite duration.

Violations of the 2021 Disposition and Participant Rehabilitation Agreements
Non-Compliance with MPRP Conditions

On October 27, 2021, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto had failed to
comply with her Rehabilitation Agreement. On November 5, 2021, in response to a letter from
the Board regarding the MPRP report, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto admitted her violation and provided
a written explanation to the Board of events leading to her failure to comply with her
Rehabilitation Agreement. In her written response, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto indicated that she
understood “the importance of MPRP and [her] participation in this program.”

On December 16, 2021, MPRP reported to the Board that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto had again
failed to comply with her Rehabilitation Agreement in early December of 2021.
Show Cause Hearing — July 13, 2022

On April 28, 2022, Panel A issued a Violation of Board Order and Notice to Show Cause
based on these alleged violations and conducted a Show Cause hearing on July 13, 2022 to grant

Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto the opportunity to show cause as to why the panel should not issue

sanctions based on her violations of the August 31, 2021 Disposition Agreement. At the hearing,

 
