(a) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall continue her Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be entered
into an amended Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan, as determined by MPRP;

(b) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(c) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms
to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board
and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall not withdraw
the release/consent;

(d) Ms, Cook-Pulizzotto shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.c., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s current therapists
and treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning Ms.
Cook-Pulizzotto and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. Ms.
Cook-Pulizzotto shall not withdraw the release/consent;

(e) Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions, including the terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall not apply for early termination of suspension;

and it is further

ORDERED that, after a minimum of one year has passed and if Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto has

fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions of the suspension, Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel requesting termination of

suspension. Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to

discuss her petition for termination. After consideration of the petition, the suspension may be
