Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto admitted her 2021 violations of her Disposition Agreement with the Board
and her Rehabilitation Agreement with MPRP. Regarding the concerns raised by Ms. Cook-
Pulizzotto’s repeated violations, the State recommended continued enrollment in and monitoring
by MPRP and reiterated the importance of Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s compliance with MPRP’s
recommendations. In addition to conveying remorse for her violations and poor judgment, Ms.
Cook-Pulizzotto provided information to the Panel apropos her ongoing commitment to fulfilling
the terms and conditions of her Agreements and stated her resolve to adhere to all MPRP and
Board requirements and conditions in the future.
Order After Show Cause Hearing: August 3, 2022
Panel A issued an Order After Show Cause Hearing on August 3, 2022, reprimanding
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto and placing her on a new period of probation for a minimum period of two
years. During the probationary period, Panel A again required Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto to remain
enrolled in MPRP, and to continue in a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan. The August 2022 Order also provided that:
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;
Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) shall
constitute a violation of this Order;
In addition, the Order stated:
If Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Ms. Cook-Pulizzotto shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines that there is a
genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative

Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings. If the disciplinary panel
determines that there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Ms. Cook-
