Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Sara Cook-Pulizzotto, Radiographer
License Number: R03620
Case Number: 7723-0076

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5B-13 (2021 Repl. Vol.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R03620, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not practice radiography, with or
without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-5B-01 ef seg. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

T understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (‘Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation based on my violation of
my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement (“PRA”) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
(“PRP”) with the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and the
Disposition Agreement dated August 31, 2021. On August 3, 2022, Panel A issued an
Order After Show Cause Hearing that placed my license on probation for a minimum of
two (2) years and required that I continue to participate in MPRP.

I acknowledge that | again violated my PRA and PRP and the Order after Show
Cause Hearing dated August 3, 2022. On April 24, 2023 Panel A issued a second Order
After Show Cause Hearing that suspended my license for a minimum of one (1) year and
required that I continue to participate in MPRP based on the second instance of failure to
comply with my PRA and PRP.
