 

On or about August 19, 2014, a physician (“Physician A”) approached Mr,
Taylor and asked about the status of an x-ray. Mr. Taylor “got up into
[Physician A’s] face and yelled at him, ‘I just sent that to you.” The
Physician was “very upset” and reported to the Office Manager that he had
never been spoken to in that way by an employee. Physician A said that ifhe
had originally hired Mr. Taylor, he would have fired Mr. Taylor on-the-spot.

On or about April 24, 2018, a pharmaceutical representative was helping to
set up a catered lunch for the Practice’s staff. Mr. Taylor entered the room
and began to take the food. The representative asked that he wait until all of
the food had been set up for staff. Mr. Taylor then “got... into her face,
yelling ‘this is my lunchtime and I will take it when I want.’” Mr. Taylor
moved toward the representative so that she was against the refrigerator. The
representative was “upset and shaken.”

On or about May 14, 2018, a patient complained that Mr. Taylor never
introduced himself and then become “irate” and “argumentative” when the
patient asked about sanitizing the x-ray table mat. The patient said she did
not want to return to the practice to receive treatment.

On or about June 6, 2018, a patient asked Mr. Taylor what his name was, to
which he responded, “Don’t worry about my name,” and “I don’t like your
attitude, you will be waiting a while.” The patient waited “in paper shorts”

for over 90 minutes while Mr. Taylor took back other patients who had just
arrived for an x-ray.

On or about June 7, 2018, a physician (“Physician B”) made a joke to Mr.
Taylor about the amount of food on his plate. Mr, Taylor “got very angry and
stepped up into [the physician’s] face and yelled at him, ‘Mind your own
business. What I eat is none of your business.’” Physician B wanted to fire
Mr. Taylor on-the-spot but deferred to the Office Manager, who convinced
Mr. Taylor to apologize.

 

As part of its investigation, Board staff interviewed several staff members at the Practice,

Both Physician A and Physician B confirmed and reiterated Mr. Taylor’s unprofessional conduct

toward them as described in Mr. Taylor’s personnel file (see J] Sa and Se, above), The other

interviews revealed the following, among other things:

f,

Physician C explained during his interview that he began working with Mr.
Taylor around 2007 when Physician C joined the practice where Mr. Taylor
was already working. Physician C said that he noticed that Mr. Taylor
become angrier when that practice merged with another in mid-2014, and Mr.
Taylor was the only x-ray technician with an increased patient load. Over

 

 
