FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel A concludes that Mr. Taylor has defaulted, the following findings of fact
are adopted from the allegations of fact set forth in the February 20, 2020 Charges Under the
Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology
Assistance Act and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence:

Mr. Taylor was initially licensed to practice radiography in Maryland on or about October
12, 1995, under License Number R04361. Mr. Taylor continuously renewed his license but did
not renew his license during the most recent renewal cycle. Therefore, his license expired on or
about April 30, 2019!

On or about December 21, 2018, the Board received a complaint from a health care staffing
agency (the “Agency”)* that reported that Mr. Taylor had tested positive for an illicit substance
during a pre-employment urine drug screen. The Board initiated an investigation into the
complaint. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained Mr. Taylor’s personnel file from an
orthopedic practice in Silver Spring, Maryland (the “Practice”), which was Mr. Taylor’s only
employer in the previous five years. Mr. Taylor’s personnel file showed, in relevant part, that the
Practice had terminated Mr. Taylor’s employment on or about July 17, 2018. A notice in Mr.
Taylor’s personnel file revealed that the cause for termination was “misconduct in connection with

. work.” The Practice’s personnel file for Mr. Taylor included multiple written reports of
unprofessional conduct involving Mr, Taylor and directed toward other staff members and patients

of the Practice. These incidents included but were not limited to the following:

' Pursuant to section [4-403 of the Health Occupations Article, the license of an individual regulated by the Board
may not “lapse by operation of law while the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” The
Board’s investigation began prior to the expiration of Mr. Taylor’s license. Therefore, by operation of law, Mr.
Taylor’s license was not permitted to expire during these proceedings.

? To maintain confidentiality, the names of all witnesses, facilities, employees, and patients will not be used in this
document.
