time, according to Physician C, he noticed that Mr. Taylor was becoming “so
cranky and just not the same happy Ronnie.” Physician C, among others,
believed in mid-2018 that, because of his worsening attitude and
unprofessionalism, it was best for Mr. Taylor to look for other employment
outside of the Practice.

g. The Office Manager stated during her interview that Mr. Taylor “started
losing his patience” when the two practices merged in 2014, and that he was
“not able to control what was coming out of his mouth.” The Office Manager
said that on one occasion, she was in the kitchen area with other staff members
working on an assignment, and Mr. Taylor came in and raised his voice at the
Office Manager in front of the other staff members, complaining about his
patient load. By mid-2018 and after several outbursts with other staff, the
Office Manager and Physician C told Mr. Taylor that the Practice was “no
longer a healthy place for [Mr. Taylor] to be.”

As part of its investigation, the Board obtained Mr. Taylor’s personnel file from the
Agency. The personnel file included Mr. Taylor’s October 15, 2018 application for the Agency
to find placement for Mr. Taylor as a Diagnostic Imaging Technologist. The file also included a
report that on or about November 30, 2018, Mr. Taylor tested positive for an illicit substance
during a pre-employment drug screen, The report noted that Mr. Taylor was notified and told to
contact the Medical Review Officer to discuss confirmation testing. On or about December 12,
2018, the Agency tried to contact Mr. Taylor to follow-up about confirmation testing. According
to the report, Mr. Taylor did not respond to the Agency, nor did he submit the necessary paperwork
and payment for the confirmation testing. Asa result, the Agency never placed him in a position.

On or about July 9, 2019, the Board issued a subpoena to Mr. Taylor for him to appear at
the Board on July 23, 2019, for an interview with Board staff. Mr. Taylor did not appear for the
July 23, 2019 interview.

On or about July 24, 2019, the Board issued a subpoena to Mr. Taylor for him to appear at
the Board on July 29, 2019, for an interview with Board staff. The cover letter to the subpoena

also warned Mr. Taylor that failing to appear “could be construed as a failure to cooperate with

the Board’s investigation.” Mr. Taylor did not appear for the July 29, 2019 interview.
