On June 24, 2020, a scheduling order was issued; notifying the parties of the date, time,
and location of the prehearing conference, among other things. The scheduling order was mailed
to both parties at their addresses of record and the copy mailed to Mr. Taylor was not returned as
undeliverable. The scheduling order informed the parties that the ALJ’s administrative assistant
would contact the parties one week prior to the prehearing conference scheduled for July 28, 2020,
at 9:30 a.m., and confirm whether the prehearing conference would be held in person or via Google
Meet due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

On June 25, 2020, two notices for the prehearing conference were mailed to the parties at
their addresses of record. The notices were not returned to the OAH as undeliverable. The first
notice informed the parties that the prehearing conference would be held in person at the OAH in
Hunt Valley, Maryland. The second notice stated that the prehearing conference would take place
via Google Meet and provided the procedures and guidelines for participating in the video
conference. Both notices instructed the parties to prepare and submit a prehearing statement no
later than 15 calendar days prior to the prehearing conference. Finally, the notices informed the
parties that the failure to attend the July 28, 2020 prehearing conference could result in a decision
against the party for failing to appear.

On July 10, 2020, the ALJ’s administrative assistant sent an email to the parties informing
them that the July 28, 2020 prehearing conference would be conducted by Google Meet, and that
the parties did not have to appear in person. Neither email was returned as undeliverable.

On July 28, 2020, at 9:30 a.m., the ALJ initiated the Google Meet video platform call to
begin the prehearing conference. Mr. Taylor did not appear for the video conference or in person
at the OAH, and no one appeared on his behalf. The administrative prosecutor appeared via

Google Meet on behalf of the State. The ALJ confirmed that Mr. Taylor had not requested a
