State. The ALJ called Mr. Slate’s telephone number on record with the Board several times and
Mr. Slate failed to answer. The ALJ held the scheduling conference in Mr. Slate’s absence.

On May 25, 2021, a Scheduling Order was issued, scheduling the telephone prehearing
conference for July 6, 2021, at 9:30 a.m. The Scheduling Order notified the parties of the date,
time, and location of the Prehearing Conference and requested that the parties submit a
curriculum vitae for any. expert witnesses and expert report, any prehearing motions, and a
prehearing statement by June 22, 2021. The Scheduling Order was mailed by United States mail
to Mr. Slate’s address of record and was not returned to OAH as undeliverable. The State
submitted a Prehearing Conference Statement, but Mr. Slate did not submit one.

On June 8, 2021, OAH sent to Mr. Slate, via United States mail, a Notice of Telephone
Prehearing Conference to his address of record. The notice informed the parties of the date,
time, and telephone numbers that OAH would call at the prehearing conference and enclosed
instructions directing each party to prepare and submit a prehearing statement and a list of
witnesses and exhibits in advance of the prehearing conference. The notice stated that the
Prehearing Conference would take place telephonically at July 6, 2021, at 9:30 a.m. and that
failure to appear or give timely notice of inability appear for the telephone prehearing conference
may result in a decision against the party. The Notice stated that if that telephone number was
incorrect, that party must provide the OAH with a telephone number, in writing, no later than
five calendar days prior to the prehearing conference. The Notice was not returned to OAH as
undeliverable by the United States mail.

On July 6, 2021, at 9:30 a.m., the ALJ convened the Prehearing Conference as scheduled.
The ALJ called Mr. Slate’s telephone number twice between 9:30 and 9:50 a.m., but Mr. Slate’s

phone went to voicemail. The State moved for a proposed default order against Mr. Slate.
