FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel A concludes that Mr. Slate has defaulted, the following findings of fact are
adopted from the allegations of fact set forth in the February 4, 2021 Charges Under the
Maryland Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology
Assistance Act and are deemed proven by the preponderance of the evidence:

At all times relevant, the Respondent was licensed to practice radiography in the State of
Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice radiography in Maryland on
January 4, 2001, under License Number R05911.!

The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a report, dated
March 6, 2020, from the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (‘ARRT”) stating that
it had reprimanded the Respondent’s certification and registration with ARRT due to his
unprofessional conduct in submitting a fraudulent Basic Life Support (“BLS”) card to gain
employment. As part of its investigation, the Board requested that the Respondent provide a
written response to the ARRT report. By letter dated May 21, 2020, the Respondent stated that
he was unaware that the BLS card was fraudulent. The Respondent stated that he paid $100 for a
five-minute tutorial demonstration at a person’s house and took an online test to obtain the BLS
card. He stated that he did not know the person was not a legitimate BLS instructor.

On or about June 9, 2020, the Board issued a subpoena to the Respondent for documents
relating to the online course he took, including the registration form, the name of the online

course instructor, receipt of payment for the online course, the website for the online course and

' Mr. Slate’s license was set to expire on April 30, 2021. Mr. Slate’s license did not expire because of his
non-renewal, however. A license may not lapse by operation of law “while the individual is under
investigation or while charges are pending.” Health Occ. § 14-5B-13; see also Salerian v. Board of
Physicians, 176 Md. App. 231, 247 (2007). Because the charges against Mr. Slate were still “pending” as
that term is used in the statute in April 2021, his license did not lapse or expire and remained active for
disciplinary purposes throughout the Board’s charging and administrative proceedings.
