 

been identified as Tammy Jean Ashby, the Defendant in Court before Your Honor
today, had embezzled a significant amount of money utilizing a credit card that she
had been authorized to use for work-related expenses through the MRI Center.

Mr. Lynn advised that Ms. Ashby was suspended as of J anuary 26", until a
formal investigation had been completed. It had been reported that while being
removed from the business on that day, Ms. Ashby had made various admissions

to Mr. Lynn and others, having apologized and offered to pay the money back and
so forth.

The preliminary figure at that time was $24,000. The victim in the case is
the Oakland MRI Center, which involves personnel from both Allegheny Imaging,
as well as the hospital, Garrett Regional Medical Center here.

The case was initiated by way of a confidential report to a hospital
administrator that a person, who would have been identified as Ms. Ashby’s

significant other, had been using a credit card from the MRI Center to purchase
alcohol at a local business.

Mr. Lynn and others, in that January 26" to February 10" time period, began
reviewing years and years of records and receipts to determine the misuse of credit
cards, to try to sort through things related to the MRI Center, going back to
November 2010 and continuing to just before her discharge from employment.

in addition to a Bank of America credit card, monies were also taken by
way of a Sam’s Club Mastercard and direct withdrawals from bank accounts at First
United Bank here in town.

There is a spreadsheet attached here that’s been provided to the Court. Note that
Mr. Lynn was conservative, as he should have been, in placing items on this
spreadsheet. In fact, he didn’t include any of the numerous charges at Walmart,
Walgreens, Lowe’s, places like that, as items that could have been purchased at
those locations could conceivably have been for use at the MRI Center.

So the spreadsheet contains purchases for a Rainbow vacuum, which was
determined not to be at the MRI Center; Ms. Ashby’s Direct TV account; the gift
shop at the hospital; liquor stores in Virginia Beach, Virginia; payment of her
electric bill; at vapor stores at the Chesapeake Bay; (indiscernible) Auction; Game
Stop, and various other places at which it would be difficult to imagine a connection
to the Oakland MRI Center. Ms. Ashby’s supervisors, including Dr. Stanley
Lambert, would testify that none of those were approved expenses.

The list also includes significant charges for fuel. The policy of the MRI
Center is to reimburse for the mileage, not pay for fuel.

The total of the embezzled funds is $34,433.90.
