While reviewing those records, Mr. Lynn would testify he found the
following: That she had reported the card missing or stolen on a number of
occasions and had had a number of transactions reversed by Bank of America. At
least one of those coincided with another employee helping with filing and making
remarks about some of the charges seen on a credit card statement.

 

When the payments were made on the credit card account, Ms. Ashby
would randomly break down the credit card payments into a number of purportedly

legitimate business expense categories that really had no relation to the items
charged.

There would have also been testimony that there had never been an attempt
to reimburse for any of the personal expenses.

The State’s Attorney’s Office was involved in the investigation, issued
subpoenas to verify information, such as the Sam’s Mastercard that had been used
for fuel, the Vapor Hut, the liquor store, et cetera. The person who was employed

by the MRI Center and who embezzled all those monies was identified as Tammy
Ashby, the Defendant before Your Honor.

5. Thereafter, the Court sentenced Ms. Ashby to eighteen months of incarceration, with all
eighteen months suspended, and three years of supervised probation with conditions that
included payment of restitution to her former employer in the amount of $34,433.90.

6. Ms. Ashby did not appeal her conviction within the time prescribed by law and the Alford
Plea and conviction have not been set aside.

DISCUSSION
Ms. Ashby does not dispute that the crime she was convicted of is a crime involving moral
turpitude and admits that she was convicted of a “financially driven felony”, Rather, Ms. Ashby
states that she did not realize she was required to disclose her conviction to the Board and that her
conviction was unrelated to patient care. Pursuant to COMAR 10,32.02.07 E(2), a response to a
show cause order must be limited to the following issues: “(a) Lack of conviction or plea; (b)
Whether the crime is one involving moral turpitude; (c) Misidentity of the respondent with the

defendant in the criminal matter; and (d) Other relevant issues, if any, other than mitigation.” The
