ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the Board or a disciplinary
panel. determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or
_condition of this Consent Order, the Board or a disciplinary panel may reprimand

the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and

conditions, or suspend or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in

Maryland. The Board or a disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of

the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent[,]
Mr. Padavil signed the Consent Order, agreeing and accepting to be bound by the Consent Order
and all of its terms and conditions.
Violation of September 19, 2018 Consent Order

Mr. Padavil enrolled in MPRP on October 16, 2018 and signed the Participant
Rehabilitation Plan and relevant addendums. Mr. Padavil, however, did not sign the required
release forms that were necessary to complete his enrollment and begin participation in MPRP.
During the initial MPRP meeting, Mr. Padavil disclosed three additional criminal acts, which
were not reported on any of his applications, and a termination of employment from a hospital,
which also was not disclosed to the Board. Mr. Padavil was given until the end of the week to —
sign the release forms and was told that his failure to sign the release forms would constitute a
violation of his Consent Order. On October 19, 2018, MPRP closed Mr. Padavil’s case for cause.
due to his failure to sign the required release forms. On October 22, 2018 the Board requested a

written response from Mr. Padavil. Mr. Padavil did not respond to the Board’s request for a.

response.
Show Cause Hearing

On February 22, 2019, Panel A issued a Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show
Cause, charging Mr. Padavil with violating the terms and conditions of the September 19, 2018
Consent Order. On April 10, 2019, Mr. Padavil appeared at the Board without counsel and
requested a postponement to obtain counsel, Panel A granted the postponement request and
rescheduled the hearing to May 8, 2019, On May 8, 20 19, Mr. Padavil, again, appeared without

4
