ORDERED that after his expired license is administratively reinstated, Mr. Padavil shall
comply with the following terms and conditions of the suspension:

(1) Mr. Padavil shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for
enrollment; :

(2) Mr. Padavil shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(3) Mr. Padavil shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply
with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP to
complete enrollment;

(4) Mr. Padavil shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested _

by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to

make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to

disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order,

(5) Mr. Padavil shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize

MPRP to exchange with (ie., disclose to and receive from) outside entities

(including all of Mr. Padavil’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal

and written information concerning Mr. Padavil and to ensure that MPRP is

authorized to receive the medical records of Mr, Padavil, including, but not

limited to, mental health and drug or alcoho! evaluation and treatment records.

Mr. Padavil shall not withdraw his release/consent; and it is further

ORDERED that after Mr. Padavil has fully and: satisfactorily enrolled in MPRP and
completed all necessary releases and forms required by MPRP, Mr. Padavil may submit a written
petition for termination of suspension. After a determination that Mr. Padavil has completed all
documentation necessary for enrollment in MPRP, the disciplinary panel may: adrninistratively
terminate Mr. Padavil’s suspension through an order of the disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that upon termination of the suspension, Mr. Padavil shall be placed on ~
PROBATION’ for a minimum period of TWO (2) YEARS. During the probationary period,

Mr, Padavil shall comply with the following probationary terms and conditions:

* If Mr. Padavil’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.

6
