2013, 2015, and 2017. As part of the initial application and each application for renewal, Mr,
Padavil was asked whether he had been charged with a crime, convicted of any crime, pled guilty
or nolo contendere to any crime, or been sentenced to confinement or a period of probation,
including probation before judgment, for any crime. Mr. Padavil answered “No” on each
application.

In 2015, the General Assembly enacted legislation requiring Board licensees seeking the
renewal of their licenses to submit to a Criminal History Records Check (“CHRC”), beginning
October 1, 2016. Maryland Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-5B-12(g). Mr. Padavil was required to
submit to a CHRC, for the first time, when he renewed his license in 2017, The Board
discovered, as a result of the CHRC and ‘subsequent Board investigation, that Mr. Padavil had
two criminal convictions, which he failed to disclose on any of his applications to the Board,

On June 7, 2018, Panel A charged Mr. Padavil with fraudulently or deceptively obtaining
a license, unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of radiation therapy, radiography,
nuclear medicine technology, or radiology assistance, and willfully making or filing a false
report in the practice of radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear medicine technology, or
radiology assistance. See Health Occ. § 14-SB-14(a)(1), (3), and (10). On September 19, 2018,
Mr, Padavil entered into a Consent Order with Panel A to resolve the charges against him.
September 19, 2018 Consent Order

In the Consent Order, Panel A found that Mr. Padavil fraudulently or deceptively
obtained a license, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(1), was guilty of unprofessional
conduct in the practice of radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear medicine technology, or

radiology assistance, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-SB-14(a)(3), and willfully made or filed a

 

Violation of Consent Order and Notice to Show Cause occurred before the expiration of Mr. Padavil’s license.
Therefore, by operation of law, Mr. Padavil’s license did not expire during these proceedings,

2
