(1) Mr. Padavil shall continue his enrollment in MPRP under the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP for the
duration of probation, as follows:

(a) Mr. Padavil shall fully, timely, and satisfactorily cooperate and comply
with all MPRP referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not
limited to, the terms and conditions of all Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with MPRP; and shall fully participate
and- comply with therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as
directed by MPRP;

(b) Mr. Padavil shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP. Mr. Padavil shall sign the
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written
disclosure to the Board, including disclosures of any and all MPRP
records and files possessed by MPRP;

(c) Mr. Padavil shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP and the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and
receive from) outside entities, including all of Mr. Padavil’s current
therapists and treatment providers, verbal and written information
concerning Mr. Padavil, and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive
the medical records of Mr. Padavil, including, but not limited to, mental
health and drug or alcohol treatment records or alcohol abuse information;

(d) Mr. Padavil’s failure to comply with any term or condition of the
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation
Plan(s) shall constitute a violation of this Order;
(2) Mr, Padavil shall pay a civil fine in the amount of $1,000.00 by money order
or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland State Board of Physicians,
P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297-3217; and it is further
ORDERED that Mr. Padavil shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further
ORDERED that after Mr. Padavil has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation has passed, Mr. Padavil may submit to the Board
a written petition for termination of probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation
may be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel. Mr. Padavil may be required to

appear before the disciplinary pane! to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary

panel may grant the petition to terminate the probation, through an order of the disciplinary
7
