The Board conducted an investigation and discovered that Mr, Wilson pleaded guilty in
Indiana in December 2006 for Operating a Vehicle While Intoxicated (a Class A Misdemeanor)
and Resisting Law Enforcement (a Class A Misdemeanor). The Court imposed a fine of $500.00

(suspended) and sentenced Mr. Wilson to 365 days incarceration (all but 60 days under house

arrest suspended).

Misrepresentation of criminal history on Board 2013 Reinstatement Application

Mr. Wilson’s license expired on or around June 30, 2009. On or about September 9,
2013, Mr. Wilson electronically submitted to the Board an Application for Reinstatement. On
the Reinstatement Application there are a series of Character and Fitness Questions. The

instructions to the questions read:

Answer “YES” or “NO” to the following items. If you answered “YES”
to any question, on a separate piece of paper, please provide a detailed
explanation and attach any supporting documentation. Examples of
documentation is (sic) next to the question. Please note that these
examples are not all inclusive. Failure to provide documentation and an
explanation will delay the processing of your application. These
questions apply since your last registration in Maryland.

(emphasis in original)
Mr. Wilson answered “NO” to Character and Fitness Question E that reads:

Have you ever been charged with or convicted of any criminal act for
which you pled nolo contendere, could receive or did receive, probation
before judgment, or were sentenced to probation or confinement? (e.g.
police reports, orders of probation, and/or letters of completion of any
mandatory program(s), termination of probation, orders of dismissal,

orders of expungement)
(emphasis in original)
On the Reinstatement Application, Mr. Wilson signed the following Affirmation:
I affirm that the information I have given in this application is true and

correct and that I am thoroughly familiar with the Maryland Statute
(Health Occupations Article § 14-5B-01 et seq.) and Regulations
