By letter dated September 18, 2017,’ the Board informed Mr. Wilson that the Board had
opened a preliminary investigation based upon the failure to obtain a CHRC for license renewal
and the attestation that Mr. Wilson submitted to a CHRC. The Board directed that Mr. Wilson
provide documentation of obtaining a CHRC to the Board within ten days of receipt of the
Board’s letter. By letter dated October 17, 2017, the Board informed Mr. Wilson that it had
teceived Mr. Wilson’s CHRC and directed Mr. Wilson to transmit to the Board within ten days:
1) court documents including copies of any relevant charges, pleas, convictions or other
applicable documentation showing completion of term of sentence; and 2) a specific written
explanation of any charges, pleas, convictions or other dispositions. By letter dated November 8,
2017, the Board notified Mr. Wilson that the Board had not received Mr. Wilson’s response to
the Board’s October 17, 2017 letter. Mr. Wilson was advised that failure to submit the requested
information within five business days of the date of the letter could be construed as failure to
cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board. By letter dated November 21,
2017, transmitted to Mr. Wilson by first-class mail, certified mail and email, the Board once
again notified Mr, Wilson to submit to the Board within ten business days copies of any and all
court documents and a detailed written explanation regarding his criminal history.

On January 22, 2018, having received no communication from Mr. Wilson, the Board
issued to him a Subpoena Ad Testificandum that directed him to be interviewed by Board staff by
telephone on February 12, 2019. The subpoena further directed Mr. Wilson to contact a
specifically identified Board staff member upon receipt to the subpoena and provide a contact
telephone number. Mr. Wilson failed to contact the Board as directed. Board staff was unable to

interview Mr. Wilson.

> The Board sent all the correspondence discussed herein to Mr. Wilson’s non-public address of record.
> The certified letter was returned to the Board as unclaimed. Neither the fetter sent by first class mail nor
the email were returned as undeliverable.
