Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer

Damean W.E.Freas., D.O., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Sanjay Sankhe, Radiographer
License Number: RO8590
Case Number: 7723-0003

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-5B-13 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R08950, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of radiography in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Radiation Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology
Assistance Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.§ 15-SB-01 et seg. and other applicable laws. In
other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual
in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”),

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation on my practice, based on a
Mandated 10-Day Report which stated my employment was terminated for poor
performance issues. On May 9, 2022, Panel B issued charges. alleging that I was
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; and guility of failing to meet
apppropriate starandards of the delivery of quality radiation therapy, radiography, nuclear
medicine technology, or radiology assistance care performed in any outpatient surgical
facility, office, hospital or related insitutation, or any other location in this State[.], in
violation of Health Occ.§ 14-5B-14(a)(4) and (18). As a resolution to the charges, I
entered into a Consent Order with Panel B on July 21, 2022 that concluded, as a matter of
law, that I violated the disciplinary grounds alleged, Health Occ.§ 15-5B-14(a)(4) and
(18). The Consent Order suspended my license to practice radiography in the State of
Maryland until I successfully complied with certain terms and conditions. These terms
