Damean W.E. Freas, D. 0, Chair, and Members of Diseplnary Panel B
RE: .. Sanjay. Sankhe, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

and conditions required that I enroll in and comply with the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and required that I take and successfully complete
courses in general radiography, anatomy and physiology and professional _ ethics.
Additionally, the terms and conditions of the Consent Order required that in order for the
suspension of my radiography license to be terminated in the State of Maryland, MPRP
had to notify the Board that I was safe to return to the practice of radiography along with
and in agreement with Panel B and after I successfully completed the courses in general
radiography, anatomy and physiology, and professional ethics. A copy of the Consent
Order is attached and incorporated herein as Attachment 1:

I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the
Consent Order. I acknowledge that the Consent Order will remain and will continue to be
a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrendet, I
will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Consent Order as long as Ido
not have or possess an active radiography license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for
failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to
contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender Tam
waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel B’s investigative
findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to
confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and. all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to
circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-101 ef seq. (2014 Repl.
Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrénder, my
license in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants
reinstatement. In the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I
understand that Panel B or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it
does grant reinstatement, may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel
considers appropriate for public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation
of the profession. I further understand that if I file a petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel B or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has
been revoked,
