 

 

Mr. Townes was originally licensed to practice radiography in Maryland on December 6,
2016. His license is scheduled to expire on April 30, 20192

From early 2014 through approximately March 26, 2018, Mr. Townes was employed as a
contractual “traveler” employee by a health services staffing company (“Company”). A traveler
employee works temporarily at a health care facility to fill a staffing shortage. A traveler
employee is required to comply with the regulations and policies of the health care facility where
he or she is assigned. From mid-February 2018, until approximately March 21, 2018, Mr.
Townes was assigned as a radiographer to the cardiac catheterization laboratory of a hospital
(“Hospital”) in Baltimore, Maryland.

On or about April 2, 2018, the Board received a complaint from the Company in which it
reported that on March 20, 2018, the Hospital had communicated its concerns that Mr. Townes’s
conduct had changed dramatically, raising concerns that he was working while impaired. Upon
receipt of the complaint, the Board initiated an investigation that included issuing to the
Company and the Hospital subpoenas for Mr. Townes’s employment file, interviewing under
oath relevant Hospital and Company staff, requesting from Mr. Townes a response to the
complaint and subpoenaing him to be interviewed by Board staff.

On March 20, 2018, the Hospital notified the Company that it was requesting Mr.
Townes to undergo a fitness for duty evaluation, including drug screening. The Hospital made
the request because Mr. Townes’s supervisor had observed a significant change in Mr. Townes’s
conduct during the previous week that caused her concern, On March 20, 2018, the Company

clinical manager (“clinical manager”) telephoned Mr. Townes to advise him that he was required

ee i

2 Mr. Townes’s license expired on April 30, 2019, Pursuant to section 14-403 of the Health Occupations Article, the
license of an individual regulated by the Board may not “lapse by operation of law while the individual is under
investigation or while charges are pending.” The Board’s investigation and issuance of charges occurred before the
expiration of Mr. Townes’s license, Therefore, by operation of law, Mr. Townes’s license did not expire during
these proceedings.
