14(a)(4) in the manner set forth in the charges. As a sanction, the ALJ proposed that Ms. Atzeni-
Dandrea’s license be revoked.

The ALJ mailed copies of the Proposed Default Order to Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea, the
administrative prosecutor, and the Board at the parties’ respective addresses of record. The
Proposed Default Order notified the parties that they may file written éxceptions to the proposed
order but must do so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed Default Order. The Proposed
Default Order stated that any exceptions and requests for a hearing must be sent to the Board with
a copy provided to the opposing party. Neither party filed exceptions. On May 10, 2023, this case
came before Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Board for final disposition.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel A concludes that Ms. Atzeni-Dandrea has defaulted and has not filed
exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted from
the allegations of fact in the October 25, 2022 charges and are deemed proven by the
preponderance of the evidence:

1. At all times relevant, the Respondent was licensed to practice

radiography in the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to

practice radiography in Maryland on November 4, 2020, under License Number
R12954.

2. The Respondent practiced radiography at a health care facility (the
“Facility A”) located in Baltimore, Maryland from on or about, November 11,
2020, until her termination on or about October 25, 2021.

3. The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after
receiving a Mandated 10-Day Report, on or about November 2, 2021, from Facility
A stating that it had terminated the Respondent’s employment due to unsatisfactory
performance. ‘

4, The Board’s investigation revealed that the Respondent began her
employment as a radiographer at Facility A on or about November 11, 2020.

2 To ensure confidentiality, the names of individuals, hospitals and healthcare facilities involved in this case are not
disclosed in this document.
