Throughout her employment at Facility A, the Respondent received numerous
trainings and mentorship in various areas of radiography such as radiation safety,
patient positioning and customer service.

5. On or about February 15, 2021, the Respondent received a verbal
and written warning after a patient complained that the Respondent had been rough
in positioning her for an imaging study.

6. On or about March 25, 2021, the Respondent received a written
warning for failing to review a patient’s prescription and prior reports before
starting an examination.

7. On or about September 2, 2021, the Respondent received a final
written warning for advising a patient that the patient had a lump and was going to
make it, when the patient did not feel a lump and the radiologist advised that there
was no new lump.

8. On or about September 6, 2021, the Respondent performed an
imaging study of a patient but failed to document that the patient had suffered a
stroke recently. The Respondent’s failure to document that the patient had had a
recent stroke caused the patient to be recalled for a second imaging study.

9. On or about September 27, 2021, an imaging specialist at Facility A
performed an imaging audit of the Respondent and determined that the Respondent
still struggled with obtaining optimal images on patients.

10. On or about September 29, 2021, the Respondent performed both a
2D and 3D imaging on a patient resulting in excessive radiation to the patient.

11. On or about October I, 2021, the Respondent performed 21 imaging
studies on an implant patient with many repeat images that were suboptimal for
technique and positioning. The Respondent also performed 2D and 3D imaging
resulting in excessive radiation to the patient. A typical implant patient imaging
was eight images.

12. Onor about October 11, 2021, the Respondent signed a Last Chance
Agreement with Facility A. Facility A gave the Respondent one last chance to
improve her performance.

13. On or about October 25, 2021, the Respondent’s trainers at Facility
A reported that the Respondent was not receptive to following protocols for
positioning and documentation. The trainers advised that the Respondent
continued to make the same errors for which she was previously provided with
written warnings. :
