Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Jontier A. Robinson, Radiographer

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have decided to surrender my license to practice radiography in the State of
Maryland because I no longer wish to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent
Order and to avoid prosecution for failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the
Consent Order. I acknowledge that the Consent Order will remain and will continue to be
a valid Final Order of the Board, however, upon acceptance of the Letter of Surrender, I
will not be required to comply with the conditions of the Consent Order as long as I do not
have or possess an active radiography license in Maryland.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution for failing
to comply with the terms and conditions of the Consent Order. I do not wish to contest
these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a
formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

T understand that the Board will advise the National Practitioner Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any
form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or
published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from
disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-101 e¢ seg. (2014 Repl.
Vol. & 2017 Supp.), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
in Maryland will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In
the event that I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel B
or its successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement,
may impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for
public safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. I further
understand that if] file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel B or its successor
in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

l acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I understand both the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
