Jontier A. Robinson, Radiographer

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: — Surrender of License to Practice Radiography
Jontier A. Robinson, Radiographer
License Number: R13608
Case Number: 7723-0037

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-SB-13 (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2019 Supp.), I have decided to SURRENDER my license
to practice radiography in the State of Maryland, License Number R13608, effective
immediately, I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give advice or
treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot engage in the
practice of radiography in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Radiation
Therapy, Radiography, Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Radiology Assistance Act (the
“Act”), Health Occ.§ 15-5B-01 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the
effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation based on my “Yes” answers
on my initial application for licensure as a Radiographer. On May 25, 2022, Panel A
notified me of its intent to deny my application for initial licensure. As a resolution, I
entered into a Consent Order with Panel A on November 17, 2022 that concluded, as a
matter of law, that I was habitually intoxicated under Health Occ. § 14-5B-14(a)(6). The
Consent Order reprimanded me and required that I enroll in and comply with the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”). A copy of the Consent Order is attached
and incorporated herein as Attachment 1.

1 acknowledge that I was discharged from MPRP on January 27, 2023 for failing to
comply with the terms and conditions of my Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan, in violation of the Consent Order.
