 

Melissa D. Harben

Date: \2[22| \ q ;

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Perfusion
Melissa D. Harben License Number: Y00014
Case Number: 2017-0248

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice
perfusion in the State of Maryland, License Number Y00014, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not engage in the practice of perfusion,
with or without compensation, in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Perfusion Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-5E-01 ef seg. (2014 Repl.
Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on
September 6, 2017, Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. §
14-5E-16(a)(3) (is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice of perfusion;
§14-SE-16(a)(4) Gs professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent); and § 14-5E-
16(a)(19) (fails to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of perfusion services).
Specifically, Panel A alleged that I failed to adequately restock the cardiac operating room;
failed to report for work in a timely manner; failed to properly operate perfusion
equipment; and failed to report a patient’s cardiac ischemic time to the attending surgeon
in a timely manner. A copy of the charges is attached as Attachment 1. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice perfusion in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges and because I have no intention
of practicing perfusion in Maryland in the foreseeable future.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges and
