the health and welfare of the general public and consistent with the best interest of the
profession. COMAR 10.32.02.06B(7). Critical issues for the Panel’s consideration include Ms.
Harben’s understanding of the nature of her violations, and her acceptance of responsibility for
these violations.

The Panel lauds Ms. Harben’s full compliance with MPRP’s recommendations from
2016 to 2017. Her written responses indicate that in 2016 and 2017, she was fully engaged in and
committed to her recovery to properly address the issues that led to her violations of Health Occ.
§§ 14-SE-16(a)(3) and 14-S5E-16(a)(6). In response to questions from Board members at her
Reinstatement Inquiry Panel meeting with Panel A, Ms. Harben acknowledged, however, that
she has not participated in any formal programs since 2017 and clarified that her primary goal in
seeking reinstatement in Maryland is to obtain an unencumbered license to practice perfusion.

The Panel also has concerns about Ms. Harben’s understanding of the conduct that led to
the termination of her employment and ultimate surrender of her license in 2018. Ms. Harben did
not deny or address the specific details of her failure to report for work on time, her failure to
correctly set up equipment and adequately restock the cardiac operating room, or her failure to
timely communicate the cardiac ischemic time to the attending surgeon, actions that could have
endangered patient safety. Her statements that her errors were caused by a hostile work
environment essentially minimized the seriousness of her actions. Her written responses do not
reassure the Panel that she has accepted responsibility for the conduct that resulted in her 2018
Letter of Surrender.

At this point, Ms. Harben has not provided any documentation or information from a
relevant official or objective source to confirm that she has no current impairing conditions that

would adversely impact her ability to practice safely as a licensed perfusionist in Maryland or in
