(b) Ms. Harben shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals and directives for the evaluation and shall fully participate and
comply with the evaluation as directed by MPRP and its agents;

(c) Ms. Harben shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. Ms. Harben shall not withdraw the
release/consent;

(d) Ms. Harben shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including any and all of Ms. Harben’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Ms. Harben and to
ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Ms.
Harben, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. Ms. Harben shall not withdraw the
release/consent; and

(e) Ms. Harben’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
constitutes a violation of this Order; and

(3) After the evaluation by MPRP and/or its agents is complete, Panel A shall review the
evaluation results. The parties may be required to appear before Panel A to discuss
whether Ms. Harben is fit to practice perfusion safely, and if so, whether probationary
conditions are necessary in the event that Ms. Harben returns to the practice of perfusion
in Maryland. If Panel A determines that it is safe for Ms. Harben to return to the practice
of perfusion, the suspension will be terminated through an order of Panel A and Panel A
may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on Ms. Harben’s return to
practice, including, but not limited to, probation and Ms. Harben’s enrollment in MPRP. If
Panel A determines that it is not safe for Ms. Harben to return to the practice of perfusion,
Panel A may issue any order appropriate to the circumstances in-this matter; and it is

further
