guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of perfusion, in violation of Health Oce. § 14-5E-
16(a)(3), and was habitually intoxicated, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5E-16(a)(6). The
Panel’s conclusions were based on a Board investigation that revealed Ms. Harben tested
positive for alcohol when she reported for her shift at a hospital and also revealed her history of
alcohol-related driving offenses.

In the 2016 Consent Order, Panel A reprimanded Ms. Harben, required her to enroll in
the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”), and to enter into and satisfactorily
cooperate and comply with the terms and conditions of a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP. Ms. Harben did enroll. in MPRP, and fully
cooperated and complied with MPRP’s referrals and the recommendations of its agents from
2016 to 2017 aimed at preventing a recurrence of her conduct.

In October 2016, MPRP notified the Board that a health care facility had terminated Ms.
Harben’s employment as a perfusionist due in part to her habitual lateness for work and making
mistakes that could have endangered patient safety. During a subsequent investigation, the Board
obtained and assessed Ms. Harben’s personnel file from the facility. An expert review by a
Maryland-licensed perfusionist included determinations that Ms. Harben failed to timely
communicate the cardiac ischemic time to the operating physician, failed to set up the Cell Saver
machine correctly, and on several occasions, failed to report for work on time, and failed to set
up the cardioplegia correctly. On September 6, 2017, Panel A charged Ms. Harben with being
guilty of immoral or unprofessional conduct in the practice of perfusion, being professionally,
physically, or mentally incompetent, and failure to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of
perfusion services, in violation of Health Occ. §§ 14-5E-16(a)(3), (4), and (19), respectively. To

avoid further investigation and prosecution of the disciplinary charges and based on her stated

 
