In addition, Ms. Harben was asked to state her understanding of the rehabilitation plan and
agreement she entered into with MPRP pursuant to the 2016 Consent Order and what steps she
had taken since her surrender to avoid a recurrence of the conduct that led to that Order. The
Board also asked Ms. Harben for information on where she has been employed and her job
duties since her surrender, and whether she had any employment prospects lined up if her license
is reinstated.

On February 13, 2023, the Board received a written response from Ms. Harben. She
discussed her conduct that resulted in the 2016 Consent Order. She acknowledged that she had
made bad choices and that such conduct in the workplace and while driving is completely
unacceptable. Ms. Harben emphasized her compliance with MPRP and MPRP’s directives to
prevent recurrence of her conduct. She asserted that she has learned very difficult lessons from
her challenges and past mistakes. Regarding the termination of her employment by a health care
facility in 2016 and the subsequent Board investigation of her practice and disciplinary charges
issued in 2017, she stated her belief that she was not incompetent or negligent but may have
made “human errors” because she was stressed and subject to a “hostile work environment”
where others made the same or similar mistakes without consequences.

Ms. Harben also informed the Board that she worked random jobs after her employment
termination and worked as a Locums Perfusionist in Rhode Island where certification by the
American Board of Cardiovascular Perfusion was needed but no license was required. At the end
of her contract in Rhode Island, she moved to Indiana and has practiced full-time as a Staff
Perfusionist in Indianapolis since 2018, where her position also does not require a license. Ms.
Harben submitted a letter of endorsement verifying her employment since 201 8 at SpecialtyCare

Community Heart and Vascular Indianapolis from the Chief Perfusionist who described her as

 
