intention not to practice perfusion in Maryland in the foreseeable future, Ms. Harben offered to
voluntarily surrender her perfusionist license through a public Letter of Surrender, which Panel
A accepted on January 9, 2018. In the Letter of Surrender, Ms. Harben understood and agreed
that her license would remain suspended unless and until Panel A granted reinstatement. The
Letter of Surrender also provided that if she demonstrated competence and fitness to practice
perfusion to the satisfaction of Panel A, and the Panel granted reinstatement, that the Panel may
impose any terms and conditions the Panel considers appropriate for public safety and the
protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession.
HiIl. APPLICATION FOR REINSTATEMENT

On January 10, 2023, the Board received Ms. Harben’s application for the reinstatement
of her Maryland perfusionist license. On January 27, 2023, Board staff sent a letter to Ms.
Harben informing her of the post-disciplinary reinstatement process and requesting her written
response to certain questions including the following:

1. What is your understanding of the nature and circumstances of your conduct
which resulted in surrendering your Maryland license?

2. What is your understanding of the Board’s concerns with respect to your
conduct? Please specifically address the conduct related to the February 17,
2016 Consent Order which required you to enroll in the Maryland
Professional Rehabilitation Program and the conduct related to the September
6, 2017 charges (attached to your Letter of Surrender) alleging that you failed
to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of perfusion services and that
you are professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent.

3. Have you accepted responsibility for the action(s) resulting in the surrender of
your license?

4. What steps have you taken to lessen the likelihood of recurrence?

5. What efforts have you made to maintain your competency to practice in your
area of specialty (i.e. continuing education credits)? Please provide specific
documentation that demonstrates your professional competence and fitness to
practice as a perfusionist.

 
