 

to investigation or disciplinary action by a court of any state for an act that would be
grounds for disciplinary action). Disciplinary Panel B agrees to dismiss the charges
under Health Occ. Il § 14-5C-8(ii) (providing professional service while using any
narcotic or controlled dangerous substance).

lll. ORDER

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, it is, by
Disciplinary Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the following terms and conditions of this Consent Order shall
not take effect until the Respondent files a petition of reinstatement with the Board, to
include a reinstatement application, application fee, and complete any basic
qualification for licensure as required in the Board’s statutes and regulations including
but not limited to any required continuing education units and a criminal history
background check; and it is further

ORDERED that on the administrative reinstatement of the Respondent’s
polysomnographic license, said license shall be immediately SUSPENDED; and it is
further ORDERED:

1. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) for evaluation and treatment. The Respondent shall enter into a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP.
The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including but not limited to, the terms and conditions
of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and toxicology screenings as directed by MPRP;

2. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP. The Respondent shall sign the release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board, including
disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by MPRP. The

6
