 

Respondent including the Schedule IV sedative at issue in the forged August 2016
prescription.

13. The prescription for the Schedule IV sedative was written on Physician A’s
prescription pad and had been purportedly signed by Physician A. The handwriting in
the body of the prescription and the date appeared to have been written by the same
individual but differed from Physician A’s handwriting. The prescription had been
completed for 30 tablets with two refills.

14. Onor about February 7, 2017, Physician A was interviewed under oath by Board
staff.

a. The Respondent had worked as a sleep technician in the sleep laboratory
associated with Practice A;

b. Physician A denied ever providing medical services or writing any
prescriptions to the Respondent;

c. Physician A stated that she did not know how the Respondent had obtained a
prescription from Physician A’s prescription pad.’ Physician A stated that she
routinely kept her prescription pad in a locked drawer in her office;®

d. Physician A confirmed that the Respondent was terminated from Practice A
as a result of the Respondent passing a fraudulent/forged prescription that
she (the Respondent) had obtained during the course of her employment at
Practice A. She had “stamped” the prescription.

li. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Based on the Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B concludes as a matter of law
that the Respondent’s conduct constituted violations of Health Occ. Il § 14-5C-17(a)(3)
(unprofessional conduct in the practice of polysomnography) and (21) (has been subject

® According to Physician A, the prescription had been “stamped.” See ¥] 14d.

7 Physician A maintains that the prescription the Respondent obtained was “an old prescription from
several years back.”

® The Respondent stated during her interview that she had found the prescription in a “book” at her home;
however, this was inconsistent with the criminal statement of charges. The police officer documented that
the Respondent had told him she had “gotten some prescription paper from [Physician A’s] office,” where
she was employed at the time.
